# Notes of the meeting 2021-06-09


## Task force members



* Miguel Ferreira
* Janet Anderson
* Anders Bo Nielsen
* Carl Wilson
* Phillip Tommerholt
* Luis Faria
* Gregor Zavrsnik

## Notes

* Why not use badges instead of levels (i.e. a package of level 3 may not be level 2). In that case, we shouldn’t call it levels at all, but “categories of requirements” grouped together in some logical way, e.g. Searchability, Security, Context, etc.
* Consider replacing the order of level 2 and 3 (this suggestion is now redundant).
* AIP could combine more than one CITS (e.g. SIARD + PREMIS CITS)
* We agree that interoperability is key. So given that the goal is interoperability, we should be as strict as possible, but allow some freedom as well for customisation.
* The CITS vary: the CITS Geo and CITS SIARD are very technically detailed in contrast with the CITS ERMS. In a word, the CITS are heterogeneous.
* WRT Carl’s comment on maturity, it is the maturity of the user community that is relevant for us, and practices in these communities vary a lot (e.g. eInvoicing cf. eDelivery).
* What model best describes us? We discussed onion vs box of inter-relating components and decided that the onion won’t do as metadata and data are so closely intertwined.
* We discussed the types of descriptive metadata used in different CITS (e.g. for CITS Geo, elements of INSPIRE, a subset of the ISO standard, are tagged, and both raster and vector data are accommodated. GML is an LTP option.)
* We discussed in detail coping with mixed IPs and the need to give organisations flexibility to follow their own guidelines. For example, RODA allows organisations to use Dublin Core, and also have their own extensions.
* We discussed interoperability vs implementability - we want people to use our specifications, so having a lowest common denominator spec, or a translator spec (Carl’s Rosetta stone), might not get folk to commit to our specifications.
* At the moment, we are project partners developing these guidelines - we don’t really represent communities yet. However, they will emerge, and the guidelines will be there when they do.
* After considering Tim Berners-Lee’s 5 levels for Linked Data (diagram above), we came to a consensus that we should look at badges/levels/labels/stars depending on 4 variables: structure; metadata; content and the relationships between the metadata and content. We have translated this approach into the New proposed framework table (above).
* We will continue contributing to this document prior to sharing with the A2 general meeting next Wednesday 16th June. 
