
# Notes of the meeting 2021-08-18


## Task force members



* Miguel Ferreira
* Janet Anderson
* Anders Bo Nielsen
* Carl Wilson
* Phillip Tommerholt
* Luis Faria
* Gregor Zavrsnik

## Notes

* The issue is scope - what is up for assessment? **We need domain-level metadata. **
* 1 star is for basically doing nothing. Need basic amendments.
* What is 4 star for structure? These relationships are not defined. This has been discussed wrt AIPs. We should not allow this to be a free-for-all.
* For SIARD, the assessment up to 3 star was straightforward, but 4 star felt out of line. Metadata was the trickiest - again, this must be domain-level, and not CSIP general metadata. 4 star is relationships between metadata. Data was fairly straightforward - the rules were clear here - relationships were clearly defined - BLOBs etc. 1 star must refer to tweaks to the CSIP. Conclusions spelled out.
* More CITS to be evaluated, especially Archival Description CITS and ERMS CITS as these are very different from the SIARD CITS.
* Logical vs Physical package relationships - **package relationships _per se_ should be dealt with by CSIP.** This is like a RDF type issue.
* SIARD CITS should be 3 star for metadata as the SIARD specification itself defines the metadata to 3 star level.
* There should be a common method for all CITS to refer to METS structural elements (this came up wrt writing the CITS Geo and CITS SIARD). Then you could use a metaCITS (lego block of combined CITS) of e.g. ERMS, SIARD etc.
* Next steps: Carl to do a couple more CITS and check if any further refinements need to be made to the framework table before Miguel F returns on 30th August. Next meeting planned for after the All Staff meeting on Tuesday 31st August (perhaps we could use this to bring Miguel up to speed). Then we’ll have a meeting (hopefully a final one) on Wednesday 8th September. 
