EARK3 A2 meeting on 9thd of Dec 2020

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)

Apologies: 
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

The next meeting is on Jan 13th. Zoom bookings have been shared via e-mail. The rest of the Wed-s meeting room is up for workgroups, please use it. 

On Dec 16th is the meeting of the annual review.

Reviews are ending on Jan 17th. 

- Progress report of specs:

*IP-s*/ KB: are in maintenance mood. 

*SIARD*/ KB: RFC is out on review, also starting work with a user groups of relational databases.   

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ reports about weekly meetings, work on GIS spec and review for Geospatial spec. ABN has proposed to expand the time for that amount of work we are doing, we would have been planned more time than 2 months. KB needs to be informed what the extension of the time means. GZ will have a zoom meeting at 1 o’clock, and ABN will specify the amount of work. 

GZ was invited to ODC team meeting on coming THU afternoon, also invited them to review CITS for GEO spec. We are not posting the request for the community centre, it is fine with them.  Also discussed that a better time for us to propose the new spec to be community standard would be after this project. NB! DILCIS board needs to be informed directly to see and be aware of what GZ will present at the meeting on THU! Fulgencio was going to aid to write the application. It is not OK to let DILCIS board know just one day before the meeting! GZ was invited just on Monday. GZ will send the info ASAP.

*RM*/ KB: out on review.

*E-Heatlh1*/ KB: out on review. Information to all: everything that explains smth is the guideline. 

*E-Health 2*/ AP and JS have been working with a table of contents for GRC dataset spec. They have managed to get contact with NAN, set a meeting time for the next week. The deadline to send the text to KB is the latest by Jan 11.   

*Premis*/ KB: Out on review. 

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB and JK are finalising the docs taking account comments that we received, well, also how to describe the result from the reviews. 

*Archival description*/ KB: Out on review. 

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB and JK are preparing the first draft which has to be ready next week. 



Next meeting is on Jan 13th.

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu

