Minutes

-	Members:

•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
•	Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
•	David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS) 
•	Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
•	Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway 
•	Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia) 
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
•	Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)


-	Text: 

KB shares the Google sheet of A2 WP Delivery Dates and Descriptions, asap it is ready it will be published for A2 in Google Drive. Each spec, incl new ones + guidelines and procedures + endorsements + certifications, have its own chunk with relevant dates, contributors, tasks, progress check. End date means going out to review, but we need to save time for language checks, it means text ready a month before. ABN express concern about vacations and a whole month for language check. KB reminds we have 6-7 docs to be reviewed and only a couple of persons will be doing that within the month. SM, DA, JA, JK offer help with checking even though there are very few extra resources for that. 

MF is checking if most of the docs that are going to review are new content type specs, we are not changing the original specs? KB: Not until after the review. KB and CW are working with them, most of the problems are connected with the transformation from GH format to PDF and web page, more connected to validation error messages and other minor things. 

KB presents new folder for templates in G-Drive, also templates for specs and guidelines, what parts they consist of, what not to touch if writing etc.  (https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1NryH7AOvdoWg3f7UdL3wqZcYFo5PVq3c) 

Cardinality, Moscow tables are word documents this far, the decision to move to GH is not decided yet. For the review, we don’t have time to set all up. ABN comments about SIARD case working simultaneously, the same should it be with all others in the end. KB reminds that at the same time with the template we have to remember to create the text. Priority is to get docs ready by review. 

GZ is not able to present on the next meeting on May 27th due to Geoforum meeting.  Progress report written form will be delivered to KB on the 26th of May.

-	Progress report of specs:

Overall admin/ KB reports about PBM yesterday. 

IP-s working with minor changes, the release date is June 1st. 

Geodata +GIS/ GZ reports the progress of geo CITS - working on GH comments. New specs and ODC - have a meeting in June. Also investigating best practices on how to implement the standards that already exist and working on the guidelines. 

RM/ KB: Handed over to OPF for checking the validation and moving to HG format. 

SIARD/ ABN comments several things (1) ambition to have a draft version of the use case report at the end of May. MM comments they had a meeting and discussed the structure, they have a very strong concept and keep on writing, the timetable is strict but manageable. We’d prefer to talk within the group at the beginning of June (Webex). (2) ABN has mailed to KB about the frame for SIARD spec, produced a similar template, but will stop work on that and look at KBs template. (3) Databases and large objects outside the SIARD file - on Fri discussed with AL if this is possible and reasonable to have additional spec next to SIARD 2.1, or if we are going to have a request for comments to SIARD 2.2, use that on the review and have to get it through DILCIS board? (4) Matter of creating C-CITS scalability. To match CITS SIARD and IP segmentation we had from E-ARK and E-ARK4ALL. SS suggested having more effective segmentation than current IP spec uses. Somehow we have to explain to Fulgencio, that full scalability is not here in 6 months but it is on its way. KB comments that for the different IPs we haven’t said more but keeping maintenance and adding the scalability. We don’t have to rush with that now. 

E-Heatlh1/ SM reports about progressing well, METS requirement are done, METS examples done, should be able to give that to KB next week. SM understands e-Health2 building block now. A good thing in guidelines template is the part of …specs are aware of… and are not relevant… – it’s useful because people are suggesting these things. 

E-Health 2/ AP reports they haven’t got back from the Cancer Registry. KB supposes that having prolonged way for e-Health 2 wouldn’t be hard to understand. JA adds that we can ask from Fulgencio the extension to reschedule. KB will prepare the text to coordinators and will let AP and JS check.    

Premis/ KB: We are moving on fast, it will be ready for everybody to look at soon. 

Archival description/ KB: tried to not 

Guidelines and procedures/ KB have created a template and working with IPs, combining all IPs and preservation metadata. Need to talk with ABN before he starts working with that text. The focus can be on the DIP itself. 

Endorsement and certification/ KB: we are focusing on the procedures, that is not started.   

- Next meeting in two weeks, on May 27th.

- Notes by: Karin Oolu
