Minutes

Members:
•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
•	Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
•	Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
•	Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)First 
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
•	Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
•	David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
•	Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia 

- Text:

KB and CW have been working with the overall work plan: 1st part is basics, finding the gaps etc. Line 27: maintenance part CSIP, SIP, AIP, DIP – hopefully we don’t need to go ver3 in the next months. Specs part:  GEOdata, ERMS, SIARD updated, review on M12 (beginning of Oct). New specs – the same dates, review starting M12. A3 needs to do the technical review, JK and JA check language. After the review, we have time for updates and publishing. We can’t postpone anything, because A3 is depending on the work of A2. Guidelines: Review for the public starts in Aug, a lot of work ahead, KB and JK responsible, no time for extra meetings. 

SM Q about the timescale for the guidelines for the new specs. KB: review for the public is Feb next year, but suggests creating the guidelines when the specs are out to be reviewed. Guidelines are more living docs than specs. The final form of the guidelines is not decided yet. The commission wants to have a doc. 

SS Q about sample data for the types like SIARD, eHealth, also demo platform. KB: we are aware of that and it will be solved, not tomorrow but after some time. First, we need the text for the review, later KB will let everyone know when starting with it.

SS Q about publishing the workplan document. It will be in GDrive, not until the last fix has been done, will also be circulated via e-mail. 

SS Q about rules to validate content specific format against CSIP. CW: CITS let flexibility to assess, e.g type of eHealth - we don’t know what tools are available for validation in their domain. For SIARD we could use listing tools, but don’t want to commit to other types. SS: eg validation of geodata is complex, would be good to check it. CW: If there was a good schema it depends on, I might use it then. We will be using existing software than developing scratch by ourselves. 
Workplan will be communicated with A2 to see all the risks. E-Health 2 is the biggest risk since people have other priorities at the moment.  

- Progress report of specs:

Overall admin/ KB reports – E-ARK all meeting took place yesterday. E-Health2 must be postponed. GZ check the online availability of the people he planned to work together. Please put KB on the cc line! Everything needs to be ready by Oct 2nd for the review.

Geodata +GIS/ GZ: Maintenance - asking geodata producers to review the input to the current specs. Change the data from PDF to gif format so they can comment properly. GIS spec – contact with a couple of people who are delivering standards, especially for the GIS context, which is a meta element from the data itself. Also waiting for the confirmation from people who are defining the mapping, how maps are covered etc. Still looking for contacts who would help us to find processing the GIS. Meeting in Montreal was canceled, the next one is in Sep in Munich. But we can start with the organization of GIS and maps and web services. The next thing is guidelines, I was contacted with archives, how to implement from scratch, which is a good use case for other organizations. KB comments the final format of guidelines is not decided. What people need to know is how to use the specs, just how to export this as a target format.  All the guidelines will look differently, it’s depending on different kind of packages. 

RM/ KB: ver2 will be reviewed on Oct. MF Q comments there has been some discussion with Kuldar Aas with ERMS export and transformation, and he has read the document and even though the basics are there, MF doesn’t think it’s implementable. But someone should implement that to see where are the gaps. KB comments the doc available online has been transformed (extended with IPs, the schema has been updated). Please wait for the draft version, KB and JK will prepare it and add to GH. 

SIARD/ ABN comments regarding ERMS - there is no template, figuring out how to make CITS structure for SIARD, comparing the drafts later we can see how different are the CITS, working in parallel. KB: We can only say that now you have those pages in the beginning, and those in the end, but in between we can’t say too much now, this will come later. 
ABN cont: one group is working with SIARD spec itself, trying to fulfill the req-s from GA. The other working on user reviews (AH and others). Lately, we have Lauri from NAE joining us after work with Keeps. Later on, when we have a more solid draft, we will include Louis. In SIARD we are focusing more on flops into CITS, as a draft in GDrive. We’ll ask for help from CW later. AH comments regarding use cases: work has been started but not come very far yet, have had a couple of meetings. Working with Norway, also with Finland with access tools, discussing source and open source. 

E-Heatlh1/ SM reports good progress. We spent a lot of time writing things down, we’ve been creating the mets spec, and writing example mets.

E-Health 2/ AP: KB asks AP to send an e-mail to people who are doing other important things that we understand the situation and our fingers are crossed that their work goes well. AP will send an email on behalf of A2. 

Premis/ KB: not started. 

Archival description/ KB: not hiding just waiting for JK checking the spelling before spreading it out. It’s being made with overside in cooperation with Archives Portal Europe Foundation since they are the big supplier of profiles for the archival descriptions we have in Europe. I’ve been talking with the technical coordinator.

Guidelines and procedures/ KB with JK working with updates of previous review periods, not easy to write review process.  

Endorsement and certification/ KB: not started yet but in the starting phase. 

- AOB: - 

- The next full A2 meeting will be on Apr 1st. Meeting slot in Webex is available on the 25th of Mar, please let know to KB.

Stay safe everyone!  

Notes by: Karin Oolu
