# Minutes per capsulam 2020-06-01

## Members attending: 
 - Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
 - Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
 - Audun Lund (Swiss Dederal Archives)
 - Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
 - Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
 - Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
 - Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
 - David Anderson (Highbury IVS)

## Change detail:
SIARD needs to be able to handle segmentation and storing of big LOB’s externally to the SIARD file. It falls into the aim of the work of scalability that we aim for as Board and as providers of specifications to the eArchiving Building Block. These work can be documented in two ways, a specification of its own extending SAIRD 2.1 or a new version of SIARD 2.2.
 
The SIARD team suggestion is to:
-	Implement the changes in SIARD 2.2.
-	The review in October is limited to segmentation and external storage of big LOB’s.
-	The E-ARK specification review will be used for the Request For Comments (RFC) for SIARD version 2.2.
- There will be a CITS Relational Databases based upon use of SIARD created.
-	Publication of SIARD 2.2 and CITS Relational Databases will be as planned in E-ARK3 month 22. (August 2021)
 
## Change impact in relation to DILCIS and E-ARK3:
*Timeline*: None, same amount of work to carry out.<br/> 
*Criticality*: Moving forward with one document is preferred and needs to be decided soon so the work can be carried out in the correct documents.<br/>
*Risk*: If the change is implemented we avoid double work and limit this RFC SIARD to one subject. The review might not contain all wanted attributes but will contain enough to be able to give comments on. If we don’t do this change the work will still be needed to done in the near future and demand a more substantial RFS SIARD with this as change as one part.<br/>
*Cost*: Fits into current planning.<br/>

## Decision:
The change request is agreed upon with a vote of yes.

## Notes by:
Karin Bredenberg, 2020-06-01
