Meeting Minutes

Members: 
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•	Karin Oolu (DLM)
•	Carl Wilson (A3, OPF) 
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (National Archives of Denmark)
•	Maximilian Maede (Bundesarchiv)
•	Jamie Kaminski (DLM)

Text:

Meetings on Apr 24th and May 1st are cancelled, there will be meeting on Mon, Apr 29th instead.

KB and CW have been working with folder structure, KB shares the screen and shows what has been done. The suggested changes are seen in green and the old text in red:

1.	https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/pull/401/files 
Suggestion for principle 1 is that we are talking about logical level, not about physical structure. CW comments the issue and asks everyone to read the text one more time and think. We need to have a decision today, lot of work depending on that. Profiles are also following physical folder structure not logical structure. Also, KB did and CW have refined that all principles have been put in order and all wasn’t presented. PT have looked at it before the meeting, all looks good, no comments.  

2.	 https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/pull/402/files 

CW have made changes to the Moscow part based what we kind of agreed on the last meeting. Going through all changes CW comments what text improvements have been done. Anyone can leave comments and it would be good to have pull request open for couple of days to encourage SS and MF give their comments as well. 
Deadline to decide this is lunchtime tomorrow. PT comments that we dont mention if the IP should be segmented. Its even more complex, we should leave it like now. KB agrees to not make it too complicated.  

3.	https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-SIP/issues/29 

If we need to add smth here, should we add it now or is it a local implementation of spec? It’s a suggestion from review to add attributes. We can’t add elements to METS but we can add attributes. This comments come from agency archive, they have total control on everything, and therefore we can say it’s more local implementation. PT asks is it possible if they are handled in Premis? KB yes you can handle it in Premis, you don’t need to look down in package to see that on higher level.  

4.	https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-SIP/issues/30 
We should decide if we want to have CSIP/SIP/AIP/DIP as one document, merge all docs to one document.  KB prefers not to do it. Its going to be long and not easy to read. Other thoughts? PT agrees. Discussion about advantages and disadvantages takes place. We have comment that different documents should be related, we need to incl an image to show the connections. JK can help.  

Second part of this issue: https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-SIP/issues/31 
Comment regarding numbering, it should be the same number if the same requirement (CSIP7 should always be the same element in all documents). MF have splitted it to 2 different issues, we have decided not to have the same ID. We need standardisation between specs themselves. KB is not sure the layout should be the best in this release, we can continue work to get perfect layout. CW adds that  there’s one pull request open about CSIP, automation of creating pdf, that works pretty well already. CW will publish the url by the next meeting. KB will publish introduction text soon. 

KB will send out an e-mail with all the comments to be replied, and no replies will be taken as agreed. How long time we should have so that everybody could respond? After discussion it was decided next WED afternoon. Cancelled meeting time could be used for that. 

PT raises the Q  about issue #398 https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/398. A3 group is creating test cases for validating, whether IP conforms to CSIP, I ran in to @xLink:href attribute. Req states that you have to describe the actual location of the resource. In integrity check, to make sure all files are described, it doesn’t state specifically how to describe this file path URL. CW comments that it has been discussed and there is no legal URL for a relative file path, there’s the problem. PT Q could we give a syntax? KB comments syntax can be given, we have it in the text relative to the roots of the package. There is a standard how to use @xLink:href, and we cant say how is the way to do it. It just says the most commone one is this and then follows slashslashslash. CW discusses different options what may work to solve the problem. 
PT raises also a side Q: We have root METS and representation METS and if you are in root METS then you are able to see the whole package. But if you are in the representation METS, then that leaves you with no idea if that representation is within this IP.  CW comments its a horrible good Q, we need to come up with policy on that. Decided: PT creates an issue of the Q after the meeting, so KB can link it to mail being sent to out with all issues to be solved. The reason problem came up now is that PT is creating example of database in IP and running through the files. Nice work PT! 

KB will write an e-mail to have comments by afternoon WED.
 
Next meeting on Apr 29th.

Notes by: Karin Oolu
