<!-----

Yay, no errors, warnings, or alerts!

Conversion time: 0.509 seconds.


Using this Markdown file:

1. Paste this output into your source file.
2. See the notes and action items below regarding this conversion run.
3. Check the rendered output (headings, lists, code blocks, tables) for proper
   formatting and use a linkchecker before you publish this page.

Conversion notes:

* Docs to Markdown version 1.0β34
* Tue May 16 2023 01:46:39 GMT-0700 (PDT)
* Source doc: Minutes DILCIS Board and E-ARK CSP CORE1.1 2023-05-10
----->



# **Minutes DILCIS Board and E-ARK CSP CORE.1.1 2023-02-16**


## **Members attending:**



* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark) 
* Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury R&D Ireland)
* David Anderson (Highbury R&D Ireland and DLM Observer)

*=absent 


## **Guests attending:**



* Participants in E-ARK CSP CORE.1.1
    * Stephen Mackey, Arne-Kristian Groven, Phillip Tømmerholt


## **Agenda:**
1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting
3. E-ARK CSP updates (all)
4. Frontpage and introduction
5. Status of our specifications (all specification responsible)
    1. CSIP, [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/4](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/4)
    2. SIP, [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-SIP/pull/112](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-SIP/pull/112)
    4. AIP
    5. DIP, [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-DIP/pull/66](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-DIP/pull/66)
    6. Preservation, Name of the specification, CITS? [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/CITS-PREMIS/issues/2](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/CITS-PREMIS/issues/2)
    7. Archival
    8. eHealth1, Version 1.1
    9. eHealth2
    10. ERMS, [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/CITS-ERMS/issues/30](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/CITS-ERMS/issues/30)
    11. Geodata
    12. CITS SIARD
    13. New CITS, Engineering
6. SIARD
7. Webpage
8. Next meeting
9. Meeting closes


## **Notes:**


### Welcome

Karin Bredenberg welcomed everyone to the meeting.


### Secretary

Janet Anderson will make the notes.


### E-ARK CSP



* There were delegates from Amsterdam and Stockholm working on BIM and they will be joining DEP.4 and CORE.2 work to investigate a BIM CITS (Creation? Endorsement?)


### Frontpage and introduction

Discussion of the new logo page: co-funding vs endorsement, where to put the logos – front page (not possible as the blue EU logo will not show). It will not need a new version, it is just like a grammar change. It should be possible to get this done within this year. We are happy with the decision to add the cover page and we await the result of the discussions with DG CNECT. This issue is a result of the CEN TC 468 and does not just affect us – the Library of Congress has been asked to convert e.g. METS, MODs, PREMIS into American then ISO standards. Miguel commented that endorsement from the EC is really important and that the DILCIS Board logo should be more prominent than the E-ARK logo.


### Current status of our specifications
KB: A pull request goes towards a version not a Master.
MF: a change against the Master triggers the publication, so wait until the end of Q3 to do the update. \
SS: Could someone else share the job with Karin and Carl. \
KB: This is in the plan, but it takes time. \
MF: I should create a version branch then wait for publication.



* CSIP: 
    * Splitting. ABN and PAT have gone back over this issue and need directions as to how to proceed. KB needs to look over this and give direction.
* SIP:
    * MF: Typo merged yesterday. The pull request was not spotted yesterday. MF will work on this this week. A Swedish colleague has been closely examining the specifications which is good.
* AIP
    * SS: No issues. The AIP was presented at a conference and received comments from David Giaretta that the E-ARK AIP is not a “real” OAIS AIP. We need community support – there have been discussions with OCFL. People are observing the AIP and have noted the slow uptake.
*  DIP
    * SS: No issues. Request regarding URL in bibliographic
* Preservation
    * Name of the specification, CITS? \
KB: It is not a CITS, but we don’t want to introduce new acronyms, so we have apples and pears in the same basket. In Sweden we have a similar situation. People are referencing them now, so we don’t want to change. \
 SS: We have two different types – vertical (health, geo etc. use case related) and horizontal (PREMIS etc.). We could have CITS for use cases and the others would be common specifications. \
 KB: What about archival? SS: Common specification. KB: It is not used much. KB: PREMIS is starting to be used. SM: PREMIS is e.g. an extension of the CS and this could be used by other CITS instead of repeating everything in each CITS. SS: Extension is another new term, and OCFL use it. Common specification is preferable. Splitting is another general topic. KB: I suggest you write this up for the board for next time with a diagram.  PAT: It is impossible to have more than one vertical CITS in the same package (not allowed in the specification). KB: It is possible to use more than one.
    * Issue – bug found and will be fixed before the next review.f.   Archival
* eHealth1
    * Version 1.1 \
 SM: No issues; corrected errors (informal feedback from NHA, Norway); added general requirements and principles (KB: this needs to become v1.1); improved guideline explanation; improved diagrams; aligned style; added exemplar of the eHealth SIP creator; removed duplication in the guideline.
* eHealth2
    * KB: No news from AP and JS. JA UK Cancer screening link. Begoña working in Santa Fé and promoting. Lots of work in DEP.3
* ERMS
* Geodata
    * GZ: Updated following comments from Anita Grasser. Good collaboration with KEEPs and DNA re. Geo/SIARD collaboration. Next steps would be to add details to the guideline. The remining open tasks are about folder use and additional elements regarding search and linked data to support Machine Learning. KB: Specification or Guidelines? GZ: Guidelines. KB: Appendix. GZ: Yes, for GeoJSON, GeoTIFF and others. SS: Anita is a data scientist and her perspective was really useful for future searching. GZ: Metadata searches KB: AICs are the thing to use.
* CITS SIARD
    * AL: The next step is for AL, PAT, ABN and AKG to meet and go through the issues.
* New CITS
    * Engineering \
 SM: Collaboration with Airbus in Spain, GS project. Airbus wanted to address 3D CAD. The data model is CAD. The standard is from LOTAR and references OAIS and STEP (open data model for CAD export). It is useful to work with LOTAR, talking to the metadata WG, they are domain specialists, not archiving specialists. LOTAR deals with Data Objects and the product model and validation, verification etc. They do not mention packages so we have arrived at the right time to introduce METS, CITS, CSIP etc. so they do not need to reinvent the wheel. They move very slowly, but it is worth to continue working with them. They can record actions as PREMIS events. Metadata – package metadata and technical metadata. SS: Manifestations? SM: A package should contain the source model and the open format, STEP, so manifestations are equivalent to representations. SS: Manifestations are from FRBR and representations are from PREMIS.


### SIARD



* We will meet. Interest has increased quite a lot this last year – several presentations. AL invited to the German Archive Days to present on SIARD. GZ: Interest in using SIARD as the base for Geo instead of SQLite. ABN: Working with NARA. There are few typos to fix in the specifications. There are requests for support with the tools – there is concern as to how these are funded. AKG: We have a project looking into the same thing and will keep ABN informed. AL is the liaison from DILCIS with ABN.


### Webpage

KB: slowly working on this. INESC-ID helping.


### Next meeting

Not in May, perhaps mid-June. CSIP people should contact Karin when required.


### Meeting closes

Thanks for attending!


## **Notes by:**

Janet Anderson, 2023-05-10
