# **Minutes DILCIS Board 2023-08-15**


## **Members attending:**



* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark) *
* Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions) *
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury R&D Ireland)
* David Anderson (Highbury R&D Ireland and DLM Observer)

*=absent 


## **Agenda:**



1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting
3. E-ARK Specifications Illustration
4. Next meeting
5. Meeting closes


## **Notes:**


### Welcome

Karin Bredenberg welcomed everyone to the meeting. A special warm welcome to Stephen who attends his first DILCIS Board meeting since he was appointed.


### Secretary

JA will make the notes.


### E-ARK Specifications Illustration
Original image just to show how many CITS we have.


![Image 1](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230815%20Images/Image1.png)


Building Block image, showing the services and the specifications.


![Image 2](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230815%20Images/Image2.png)




**What is the purpose of the image?** 

The new images have come from the validation team, and their purposes are different. Specifications are needed for building a system and you use the different ones for doing it. To remember is that the Archival and Preservation one is optional to use but if you have the data and it is added to the package use them and make sure your archival and preservation metadata is valid!

A simple diagram is used on the EC website. The only concern is about CITS PREMIS and CITS Archival are not CITS – they are valid for all package types. Suggestion – CS for Preservation and CS for archival can be used for technical folk. Many of them can still be content specific, e.g. databases. _Archival is a cross-content type. _See also the notes from May, [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230510_DILCIS_Board_andEARK_CSP_CORE11.md](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230510_DILCIS_Board_andEARK_CSP_CORE11.md) 

**The different suggestions was presented**


Version 1 suggestion for new version of the image.


![Image 3](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230815%20Images/Image3.png)


Version 2 is the validation team suggestion where they were thinking about how to build the hierarchical validation framework and what levels that are defined for conformance. 


![Image 4](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230815%20Images/Image4.png)


Version 3 with focus on where a specification is used in a package.


![Image 5](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230815%20Images/Image5.png)


Version 4 additional suggestion from the smaller Validation Working Group


![Image 6](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230815%20Images/Image6.png)


Version 5 with a focus on how to do the selection of which specifications to use. The Board decided upon this being used for a description in the guideline for CSIP and more. SM to draft text to be included in the guideline.


![Image 7](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230815%20Images/Image7.png)


**Result**

There might be a need for different images, one to show the number of specifications and one to show how they are connected when it comes to validation.

The new image is needed to be in the preface, on webpages and used in presentations.

SS is setting up a Menti for the Board with a possibility to vote on version 1-4. 


### Next meeting

Wednesday 13th of September 10.00 CEST..


### Meeting closes

KB thanked all for participating!


## **Notes by:**

Janet Anderson, 2023-08-15

