# 20230214 Coordination meeting for specifications maintenance
## Attendees
Arne-Kristian Groven, Audun Lund, Gregor Završnik, John Mackey, Karin Bredenberg,Miguel Guimarães, Sven Schlarb
## Apologies
Anita Graser, Anja Paulič, Carl Wilson,  Luís Faria, Miguel Ferreira, Phillip Tømmerholt, Stephen Mackey
## Agenda and notes
1. Welcome
   1. A short introduction by Karin
   2. Close cooperation E-ARK CSP and DILCIS Board!
   3. All specifications lead to do their own planning
2. Meeting template
   1. Karin will make the notes today
   2. For all meetings:
      1. Remember to add your meeting to the table of meetings in Nextcloud 
      2. Use the template for your notes in Nextcloud 
      3. These coordination meetings will be saved in the main meeting folder for the task CORE.1.1 and published on GitHub
      4. Create a subfolder for your meetings in your specification folder and save your meeting notes there
3. Time recording
   1. Time is recorded on Action #618
      1. Start your description with CORE.1.1
      2. End your description with the date for when you did the work
   2. Create a change at the relevant place and describe what you have done.
      1. This will be used in the reporting.
4. Placement of specifications
   1. CSIP/SIP/AIP/DIP are placed in GitHub
   2. All the rest are found in NextCloud
5. Github
   1. Important to work in branches!
   2. PR’s to update Master branch
   3. Sven raised the versioning for the IP specifications. Shouldn't they use the same numbering. Question to be moved to the DILCIS Board.
   4. A short tutorial will be planned for showing the use of branches. Sven and Karin to plan.
6. Specifications Update Report
   1. Document to fill in your update are found in NextCloud 
   2. There are placeholders for you!
   3. Focus on status and dont write nothing to report, remove the heading in that case.
   4. Ready by Wednesday 22nd of February 
7. KPI
   1. KPI_CORE.1 The specifications published in August 2021 and October 2021 are in maintenance mode where only minor changes are foreseen. The KPI for these publications, therefore, is focused on getting user feedback and an overall figure for all these specifications is that 5 issues are created by users of the specifications. A formal CITS specification template (derived from CITS Geospatial) which defines how the compliance and validation criteria need to be specified exists at the end of year 1.
8. Reports and plans from all specification leads
   1. Common Specification for Information Packages (CSIP), Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera)
      2. Tasks in agreement
         1. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 
         2. Focus on Guideline.
      2. Issues have been registered in GitHub that will be handled 
   2. E-ARK Submission Information Package (E-ARK SIP), Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions) and Luís Faria (KEEP Solutions)
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 
         2. Focus on Guideline. 
       2. No news today	
   3. E-ARK Archival Information Package (E-ARK AIP), Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology) 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Minor updates	 will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 
         2. Focus on Guideline. 
      2. Requests to enhance the description of handling of versions of AIP in a generalised form
      3. Investigate and enhance the description of how to use the AIP together with OCFL, [https://ocfl.io/](https://ocfl.io/) 
   4. E-ARK Dissemination Information Package (E-ARK DIP), Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology) 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 
         2. Focus on Guideline. 
      2. Sven will talk with Anders Bo Nielsen, DNA
   5. E-ARK Content Information Type Specification for Archival Information (CITS Archival Information), Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera) 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. As a first endorsement specification, this one is considered stable. 
         2. Focus on Guideline. 
      2. Specification is stable
   6. E-ARK Content Information Type Specification for Preservation metadata (CITS PREMIS), Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera) 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 
         2. Focus on Guideline.
      2. Should this specification be named CITS? Question to be transferred to the DILCIS Board 
   7. E-ARK Content Information Type Specification for Electronic Records Management Systems (CITS ERMS), Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera) 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 
         2. Focus on Guideline and examples. 
      2. Issues have been raised in GitHub, updates are on-going
   8. E-ARK Content Information Type Specification for digital geospatial data records archiving (CITS Geospatial), Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh), Anita Graser (AIT) 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 
         2. Focus on the Guideline with a fuller description of the use of the folder structure and the addition of a short appendix regarding using CITS SIARD with Geodata. 
         3. The CITS Geospatial will be reviewed regarding open data standards, such as KML, GML, OGC, and shapefile, as well as JSON formats used by libraries, such as GeoPandas (https://geopandas.org) (Anita Graser, AIT). 
         4. A general CITS template is derived from the CITS Geospatial for new CITS. The template uses adequate layout elements to define how to structure, and content validation criteria should be formalised to facilitate the implementation of validation components (Anita Graser, AIT). 
      2. The text is being reviewed
      3. Prioritising of the sub-sub-tasks will be made
   9. E-ARK Content Information Type Specification for Patient Medical Records (CITS eHealth 1), Stephen Mackey (Penwern) 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 
         2. Focus on Guideline.
      2. Are awaiting comments to enhance the guideline 
   10. E-ARK Content Information Type Specification for Cancer Registry export (CITS eHealth2), Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia) 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Focus on Guideline and awareness.
      2. No news today 
   11. E-ARK Content Information Type Specification for Relational Databases using SIARD (CITS SIARD), Phillip Tømmerholt (KMD) and Arne-Kristian Groven (NAN) 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 
         2. Focus on Guideline and enhancing descriptions on using SIARD. 
      2. No news today
   12. The standard SIARD, Phillip Tømmerholt (KMD) Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives), and Arne-Kristian Groven (NAN) 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Focus on maintaining the standard.
      2. No news today
      3. Arne-Kristian raised concerns that he didn't know the plan for the work
         1. A planning meeting needed. Audun will initiate it. Participants; Phillip, Audun, Arne-Kristian, Karin and Sven 
   13. Procedures, Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera) with aid of the DILCIS Board 
      1. Tasks in agreement
         1. Guidelines for creating a new Content Information Type Specification. 
         2. Open review guidelines for E-ARK specifications and documentation. 
         3. Guidelines for revision of Common Specifications and Content Information Type Specifications. 
         4. Figure production for E-ARK specifications and their guidelines. 
         5. Procedure for vocabulary creation in a Common Specification or Content Information Type Specification. 
         6. Procedure for the E-ARK CITS Interoperability assessment framework.
      8. Currently no changes needed.
9. Next meeting
   1. May/June
## Actions
1. GitHub tutorial (Sven and Karin, 20230331)
2. DILCIS Board to discuss versioning numbers of the IP-s (Karin, 20230216)
3. Make contact with Anders Bo Nielsen, DNA to discuss the DIP (Sven, 20230331)
4. DILCIS Board to discuss name of CITS PREMIS (Karin, 20230216)
5. Contribute to the specifications report (Specification responsibles, 20230222)
6. Planning meeting for SIARD and CITS SIARD (Audun, 20230331)
## (Previous Actions if relevant before new actions)
1. No earlier action points
