# **Minutes DILCIS Board 2023-11-01**

## **Members attending:**

* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
* Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)
* Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
* Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)

*=absent

Invited guest to agenda point 3:

* Carlota Bustelo (Gabinete Umbus SL and E-ARK CSP)

## **Agenda**
1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting
3. CEN/ISO (10 minutes, Carlota Bustelo) \
[ https://dilcis.eu/images/procedures/LC-001390244_CEF-TC_2019-3_M25.pdf](https://dilcis.eu/images/procedures/LC-001390244_CEF-TC_2019-3_M25.pdf)
4. Memberships (Karin)
    1. Welcomes and Goodbyes
5. E-ARK CSP updates (all)

    1. **ISO 14721:2012 revision** \
 Information Package definition change \
 Draft? Page 1-12[ https://cwe.ccsds.org/moims/docs/MOIMS-DAI/Draft%20Documents/OAIS%20v3/650x0p21_final_A4!-TG.pdf](https://cwe.ccsds.org/moims/docs/MOIMS-DAI/Draft%20Documents/OAIS%20v3/650x0p21_final_A4!-TG.pdf)   \
 Current, page 1-12:[ https://public.ccsds.org/pubs/650x0m2.pdf](https://public.ccsds.org/pubs/650x0m2.pdf)
6. Common questions
    1. **DECISIONS NEEDED**:
        1. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/703](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/703)  
        2. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/707](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/707) 
        3. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/708](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/708) 
        4. [ https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/709](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/709) 
        5. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/710](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/710) 
        6. [ https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/711](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/711) 
    2. **DECISION NEEDED**
        1. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/4](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/4) 
            1. Suggestion:[ https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/compare/master...rel/2.2.0](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/compare/master...rel/2.2.0)
    3. **DECISION NEEDED**
        1. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/713](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/713)
            1. How to handle – versus –
            2. Addition of missing LoC values
            3. Planning?
            4. Responsible
    4. **DECISION NEEDED**
        1.   What will be part of publication on the 17th of May 2024?
            1. Handling of issues
            2. Inclusion of acknowledgement page
        2. Decision already made upon version numbers
            1. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230216%20DILCIS%20Board.md](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/blob/master/MeetingNotes/2023/20230216%20DILCIS%20Board.md)
            2. For IP’s the number is 2.2/2.2.0
                1. Gather all updates for the next version in a branch rel/vN.N or rel/vN.N.N CSIP already have this branch and its named rel/v2.2)
                2. Make your PR’s towards this version branch
                    1. Make sure to state which issue the PR is handling
                3. Publication is a PR from rel/vN.N or rel/vN.N.N to Master
8. Status of our specifications (all specification responsible)
    1. CSIP
        1. Report from Sven
            1. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/712](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/712)
        2. PR’s[ https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/pulls](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/pulls)
    2. SIP
    3. AIP
    4. DIP
    5.  Preservation
    6. Archival
    7. eHealth1
        1. **DECISION NEEDED**
            1. Review of version 2
    8. eHealth2
    9. ERMS
        1. PR’s[ https://github.com/DILCISBoard/CITS-ERMS/pulls](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/CITS-ERMS/pulls)
    10. Geodata
        1. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/CITS-Geospatial/issues](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/CITS-Geospatial/issues)
    11. CITS SIARD
9. SIARD
    1. PR’s[ https://github.com/DILCISBoard/SIARD/pulls](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/SIARD/pulls)
10. Webpage
11. Next meeting
12. Meeting closes

## **Notes**


### **Welcome**
Karin welcomed everyone to the meeting 

### **Secretary of the meeting**
Janet Anderson

## **CEN/ISO (Standardardisation)**
Carlota Bustelo (CB). International and European Standardisation. European: CEN; CENELEC and ETSI. Normally standards for EC regulations. Sometimes EC requests a standard for a regulation. Sometimes standards do not follow the regulation request. Each standardisation body  has its own process. We are looking at CEN. There is a new TC existing for 1.5 years TC 468. For the first time, electronic archiving is mentioned – in the eIDAS 2 last month electronic archiving trust services appear. There is a commercial interest in the European market for electronic archiving services based on standards. People want to know how the standards will be implemented. Some of the CEN people are interested in this and eArchiving is represented (DG CNECT, SS and JA), and Anders Bo, Jože, Markus, Carlota. A point for strategy discussion in the DILCIS Board – should the E-ARK Specifications become a European Standard? If there is a European standard for specifications, then there can be no other ones used in Europe. There is one year to make implementation acts. Fir the first eIDAS 1 there are some ETSI standards, and these are mainly for electronic signatures. But there are some standards for preserving electronic signatures, using cryptographic methods, and there is a danger that this could be seen as sufficient as they have defines their own IPs etc.

At the same time, there is a request from ISO to form a standard for DP and they asked directly if the E-ARK specifications could become an ISO standard.

To be a European standard is not the same as certification – they are separate businesses.

Sven Schlarb. We have a working group with the ETSI – they have been being asking why we have electronic archiving, then they say E-ARK is just for Cultural Heritage. Then they say the ETSI standard is for business and legal work.

Anders Bo. This was a very accurate representation from Carlota and Sven. Yes, it is an uphill battle.

KB. There are not just IPs, there is SIARD and the CITS. We also explain how to use them. We have a community approach now, with long turnaround times. What is the engagement approach with CEN?

A-K G Crypto methods have limitations on the long-term approach.

CB: It is common to have the standard and the guidelines, so that is not a problem. True, they have a procedure for publishing and approval- reaching consensus from each country. This is difficult to balance, they want to get it done quickly, but it is a slow procedure, 2 years, to get consensus. SIARD – is a national standard and it is normal to offer a national standard as a European standard.

There is a lot of talk of METS not being an ISO standard. But all you need is to say who owns the copyright.

MF. CB was very clear – and certification is in our contract. Advantages – sustainability, and certification, and it will protect the standards from other standards. Risks – eIDAS using our archiving specifications; losing control so the end of the DILCIS Board.

CB. Certification vs standardisation.

MF. I meant standardisation

CB. OAIS have an agreement with ISO and they retain control. It is a strange case.

MF. That is a great case – everyone follows it. It is David Giaretta. It has a huge impact on the community.

JA: M2.5 – we are at a crossroads. Intermediate archiving. Hijacking.

SS: There would be a working group with representatives from each MS. They would decide the content. Funding? Each country funds the expert. If you already have funding that is something.

CB: Link in the chat – DILCIS Board is mentioned in the plan for electronic archiving.

JA: Is it possible for eArchiving and the DILCIS Board to maintain influence within the working group.

SS. Strong opposition from Germany.

JA: Political issue

GZ: What about the CITS? Based on METS and PREMIS.

DA: This is about scope – this is about what we negotiate with CEN.

CB: We need some preliminary discussions with CEN – KB to be there.

KB: All agreed that we will start the discussions, and that CB will approach the CEN officer. KB cannot be part of the Swedish delegation as Syd are not a member. Confirmed that KB would be part of the group. Also perhaps include the other members of the CEN committee – Sven and Janet.

### **Welcomes and goodbyes. A-K G, AP and MB and AL.**

### **ISO 14721:2012 revision**
– needed for 5<sup>th</sup> January. It says exactly the same thing, but more concisely. KB saw the first update in 2019, and it has brought clarity. 

MF. They no longer talk about Content Information, but now talk about Information Objects. KB – this is just the data in the packages.

A-K G. Background in Object-oriented programming. They have made everything information objects, so they use specialisation and generalisation etc. so they have made this more explicit, and it is easier to write OO programs.

GZ – splitting the object from the Information Object.

### **Common questions**
#### **Publication process**

Publication – XSFO(?) and timing. DILCIS – voluntary board – some have time in eArchiving and some don’t.

SS. Carl Wilson (CW) is updating the process – automating the process from Github. Changing the tag name and then automatic update. Milestones in Github – prioritise issues. All on CW’s shoulders – Knowledge transfer to Anita Graser and SS in AIT.

ABN – you should be able to separate the publishing process content from the presentation aspect.

SS. It is really important that we sort out the publishing pipeline

SM: have we got a plan for execution? Tests in METS would be a stiff learning curve.

SS: We want to bundle the work in one place – the METS Profile. We need to prioritise the new specifications coming up.

SM so validation takes over from the specifications?

SS: Libnova would build their own validator so they would need to look at the specifications and use the test corpus.

#### **The rest is postponed until next time**

### **Status of our specifications**

**Postponed to next time**

### **SIARD**

**Postponed to next time**

### **Webpage**

Karin will publish a welcome and a goodbye for our changes in memberships

### **Next meeting**

Wednesday 10<sup>th</sup> January 10.00 CET.
### **Meeting closes**
