EARK3 A2 meeting on 13th of Jan 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)

Apologies: 
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)



## Text: 

Happy New Year! 
Procedures of A2 meetings continue as used to be. Bookings in Zoom are for every 2nd week:  One for “All A2” and the other one for “A2 Teams” is for teams. The team needs to claim it on weekly basis on  All A2 meetings to be set up for the next week. 

The review ends on Sunday, JK and KB start to distribute the replies in GDrive on Monday.  All the replies will be inserted to GDrive folder for each spec. If you’ve got a reply by e-mail, please put it there too! Also, a small summary of what replies you have got + what actions you will take needs to be uploaded. KB creates a template for that. 

- Progress report of specs:

The annual review was on Dec 16th, info sent by e-mail last year. The result was positive, we are doing a lot of things in a very short time. 

*IP-s*/ KB: IP’s are in maintenance mood. Some issues are in GH, but still there until we are publishing updated versions. Depending on CITS SIARD and RFC SIARD, some comments are about understanding and wording, which doesn’t affect, but we have to wait. 

*SIARD*/ PT: E-mail has been sent out to SIARD user group. Haven’t had time yet to look spec,  but going to look ASAP and read all comments to specs. Begin writing the guideline for CITS SIARD. There are still refinements to make. KB adds all to remember that we have a guideline for everything, no need for repeating, but focus just your spec. 

ABN adds there have been a few comments to RFC SIARD and expecting more. He will try to summarise informal comments and taking care of some issues related to matters of scalability for the IPs. KB suggests to include that info to the summary.  Also, we have to think about how can we tackle these kinds of questions (informal format) in a broader scope. How to combine a different kind of content we have prepared for that in CSIP. We’ll get back on that.  

*Geodata +GIS*/ KB asks about the status of ODC meeting as GZ have sent a mail to DILCIS board (DB), but no follow up of presentation as promised for one month ago. GZ  informs about the meeting, the discussion was about the geodata CITS as a community standard, that they are keen to cooperate in future, but sometimes they don’t have time to operate with every working group. Also that they will take care of assuring the sponsorship of spec among primary members (2-3).  KB comments that it is not OK to let DB wait for 1 month. GZ must inform DB directly because DB must know and see what is happening. GZ apologise that he has been busy and provides information directly to all DB members + presentation today. 

GZ has not got direct comments. 

Geodata – last meeting with DNA on 17th of Dec, next one is tomorrow. Agreed meetings in THU-s, using own zoom. Last meeting we worked on finalizing validation criteria for vector data. Have been working with CITS for FIS guidelines that will be ready by the end of next week. Also expecting input from ABN and the team about the time to help with METS elements. GZ Q about what reassure what are the acceptance criteria, which elements are out of scope? Where to find this info?  GZ is referring to misunderstanding in past Sept, just a broader framework, criteria what needs to be delivered? ABN proposes as there will be a meeting tomorrow we can discuss the plan.  JA Q Do we have a revised deadline in the plan? ABN explains the situation, in a few weeks, by Friday afternoon we need to submit further changes. KB is looking forward to the result of the meeting tomorrow. 

*RM*/ KB: out on review. Got a comment that the document can’t be uploaded because the limit is 1MB. KB and JK will update it and add the info about Please send an e-mail. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM: e-Health 1 is on review. No informal comments. The guideline is nearly complete. JK would you like to review that? SM sends it next week. 

ABN had a few comments regarding e-Health 1. The Q is how are we expecting to use this in a more federal health structure countries, e.g hospitals, private practitioners? SM finds it useful, incl to the summary. ABN will upload it to GDrive reply folder. 

*E-Health 2*/ AP comments they have been in lockdown for 3 months and describes the work done. Created contextual elements that can be used in every cr institution, focused on the content of the exports, discussed what we have done with our cancer registers. They see the point, but not entirely, we might get the same answer as ABN got for e-Health1. Next, we need to focus on additional documentation that needs to be preserved with the actual content of aggregated exports: questionnaires, code lists, additional guidelines, etc. Also, I have a suspicion that we are moving from actual spec into a guideline territory and we may end up with guidelines. Let us see where the next 2 weeks take us. KB comments in addition to ABN comments, e-Health 2 is more specific, but as it is health there will be questions. Good progress. 

*Premis*/ KB: Out on review. 
*Archival description*/ KB: Out on review. 
No comments to both yet.

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB comments you have seen the summary, minor updates needed. Comments were mostly about understanding the text.  

*Endorsement and certification*/ We have reached the weigh point, handed over to DB. Endorsement we are sort of testing it against archival description. 

ABN: future we need to have a plan of the rest of the year, might be beneficial to look where we are etc. AP Like a roadmap? Yes. KB will see what we have left and creates smth similar to A2 work plan. 



Next meeting is on Jan 27th (even though a few of us may be at the E-ARK conference)

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu

