# **Per Capsulam Minutes DILCIS Board 2021-03-15**


## **Members attending:**



*   Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
*   Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
*   Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
*   Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
*   Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
*   Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
*   Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
*   Janet Anderson (Highbury R&D)
*   David Anderson (Highbury R&D and DLM Observer)

*=absent 


## **Agenda:**



1. Welcome. Secretary of the meeting
2. Outline for AIP White Paper proposal


## **Notes:**


### 1. Secretary

Karin Bredenberg will make the notes.


### 2. Outline for AIP White Paper proposal

The board has received the proposed outline for the AIP White Paper created by Sven Schlarb, Carl Wilson (OPF) and Martin SPeller (OPF).


#### Result

The board accepts the outline and says ok to creation of the white paper with some additional comments.



*   Stakeholders – is this white paper for the board (how to change the current AIP), for finding support among developers and digital archives, .. ? A few sentences about it in the intro is wanted.
*   Current practice and Issues – that is the foundational chapter upon which everything else is built. However, the statements need to be discussed in a bigger group. 
*   The importance of scalability is pointed out.
*   Clarification needed on when this white paper and possible updates of the AIP specification is needed.
*   Clarification is needed regarding the level of specification and validation and which metadata specification that will be used. E.g. will the CITS Preservation Metadata be used, and if so be reference or direct incorporation?

There have also been offers of contributing to the white paper which will be handled by Sven Schlarb.


## **Notes by:**

Karin Bredenberg, 2021-03-15
