EARK3 A2 meeting on 28th of July 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
 • Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

Apologies: 
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

Today’s is the check-in meeting before the deadline on August 6th, next Fri. August is publication month. A5 have emailed that there will be event for specifications on Oct 26th, 3 PM.

Reviews for group 4 and 5 specs are closed, summaries have been sent out. 

DILCIS – Work with AIP white paper is ongoing. We’ve got one reply, vocabulary work have been started, ongoing. M2.5 is ready, as well as M2.4. (one for endorsement and one for certification). 
The result from the validation level is finished and the DILCIS board will vote on it according to its procedures. 

SM Q about guidelines (GL). GLs are going to be published with spec-s by Aug 6th. We need to think (but not before this project is over) how people can contribute to updating GL-s, how they should be published. Can they just update or do we need some sort of review period etc.   
PT comments that in terms of CITS SIARD and its GL it should somehow live in the interest group. KB we only have that for SIARD. We have to keep the spec with the GL, but somehow we need to keep easy access to the public too. 
GZ Q about having the geo form for DLM to be the group to take care of GL for SIARD, or should we have different organizational relations to it? KB can't answer now, please wait until we have looked into it. 

- Progress report of specs:

Overall admin: Recent all staff meeting has been cleared out what’s been going on. 

*IP-s*/ KB: ASAP we have the publication ready we can check the issues. IPs are in a stable mode and we don’t to updates too easy. KB is working with the value list for CITS and creating the 1st version of that.
                                                                                                                
*SIARD*/ PT: ABN is on vacation but finished the updates SIARD RFC, 2.2 before that. Left the opportunity if people would come with any comments, they should reply. This far no replies, it is ready to be uploaded to Drive, PT will close that on FRI. 

For CITS SIARD we’ve made amendments, everything looks fine and we can upload all before Aug 6. 

News about interest group: KA is in charge of the host, from the DILCIS board side the mailing list will come out soon. PT will send the latest ver of CITS SIARD to CW who will be looking at the validation. PT will put it together on FRI afternoon. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ reports about replies for the CITS and the GL-s. Answering the questions, the rest of the team is on vacation. Most of the comments were from DNA and we can answer rather quickly. 

*RM*/ KB: Final language check with JK, also the GL-s. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM reports that spec is ready, GL one final review. Both will be ready by FRI. Q about the METS profile. Yes.

*E-Health 2*/ KB reports that they will be ready by this week. Most comments were from cancer registries, a lot of medical terms etc.    

*Premis*/ KB: Final language checks by JK and will be published in Drive asap, most likely this week. 

*Archival description*/ KB: Final language checks by JK and will be published in Drive asap, most likely this week.

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: Procedures have been overhauled to language check, validatability will have its own procedure. MF comments it would be nicer to have them in a single document, to be embedded. KB wants to keep them separate because we want people to get changes to GL-s, which will be published in August. It's easier to manage in two different documents. 
                                                                                                                          
*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: last language checks and uploads to Drive.

Work continues to get all ready by Aug 6th, link to the publications in Drive: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1tm7cMj-SoSyiNE8_EPfvn__rjvFjORDp
 

The next meeting is on Aug 11th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
