Minutes for 13th March 2018

Present: 
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair) (KB)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark) (ABN)
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia) (KA)
•	Janet Anderson (University of Brighton) (JA)
•	David Anderson (observer from DLM Forum) (DA) 
•	Gregor Zavrsnik (National Archives of Slovenia) (GZ)
•	Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology) (SS) 
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions) (MF)

Apologies:
•	Krystyna Ohnesorge (Swiss Federal Archives) (KO)


Agenda and notes:
1.	Secretary of the meeting - JA

2.	AoB to be added?
- a) DLM Forum meeting in Tallinn (JA)

3. and 
4.	Update on CEF (Karin) and CEF Activities – review (Karin). he call is out and work for the proposal is being carried out by the consortium members: National Archives of Denmark (Coordinator); National Archives of Sweden; DLM Forum; Austrian Institute of Technology; and MINHAP, Spain. A planning meeting took place last week in Copenhagen. Here is the link to the call: https://ec.europa.eu/inea/en/connecting-europe-facility/cef-telecom/apply-funding/2018-eArchiving  Activity 2 regarding specifications was discussed in detail – the scope, the tasks and the milestones. MF and GZ will send Karin their estimates of participation following the proposed DILCIS workplan.

5.	Workplan (Karin et al.) the CEF work is built upon the DILCIS workplan we have already formulated.

6.	AoB
- a) If you plan to take part in DLM Forum in Tallinn you need to register ASAP.

7.	The next meeting will take place in week 17 or 18 with the usual time 9.00/10.00/11.00. Date not set yet. Remember the DILCIS F2F in Tallinn on the 30th of May, where we will start at 10.00 and end latest by 18.00.

Karin Bredenberg and Janet Anderson, 13th March 2018
