Minutes for 15h November 2018

Present: 
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•	Anja Paulič (A3, National Archives of Slovenia)
•	Helder Silva (KEEP Solutions)
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Carl Wilson (A3, OPF)
•	Istvan Aföldi (A3, Poliphon)

Agenda and notes:
1. Secretary – KB.

2. Issue https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/121 
- IP's with no metadata is possible. Having empty folders aid in understanding the structure. Needs to be a guideline present to explain.
- **Action:** KB closes the issue
- **Action:** KB New issue for creating a guideline is created.
3. Issue https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/122
- Related to the previous one. Empty folders aid in understanding the structure. Needs to be a guideline present to explain. 
- **Action:** KB closes the issue
- **Action:** KB New issue for creating a guideline is created.
4. Issue https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/123
- Suggestion to change **CAN** to **MUST**. The preferred placement of the METS information for a representaiton is in a METS document whitin the representation as well as having the empty folders for showing the structure.
- **Action:** Making this changes needs changes in more places. KB and CW creates a draft as a Pull Request to show the change. (all changes from issues discussed in this meeting will be part of the same Pull Request.) 
- **Action:** KB contacts Sven and Björ so they can give comments on the suggested solution
5. Issue  https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/177 
- Exactly the same as the prevous one, https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/123
- **Action:** Follows the previous ones actions
6. Issue https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/180
- Updates of the requriments:
  - CSIPSTR11: The representation folder MUST include a sub-folder named data which includes all data constituting the representation ;
  - Is changed to: The representation folder MUST include a sub-folder named data **for** all data constituting the representation;
  - CSIPSTR13: The representation folder CAN include a sub-folder named metadata which CAN include all metadata about the specific representation
  - Is changed to: The representation folder **MUST** include a sub-folder named metadata **for** all metadata about the specific representation

7. All **Actions**
- KB and CW creates draft of all the changes and at the same time do an overlook and update for choerance and publish it as a Pull Request
- KB makes sure Björn and Sven gets info of this.
- KB puts decision of these changes om the agenda for next weeks A2 meeting
- KB creates issues for guidelines
- KB closes issue #121 and #122
- KB comments on all thses issues

Karin Bredenberg, 15th November 2018
