Agenda 15th of June 2017

Welcome to the meeting of the DAS Board

Members: 
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)*
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Janet Delve (University of Brighton)
•	Gregor Zavrsnik (National Archives of Slovenia)
•	David Anderson (observer from DLM Forum)
•	Krystyna Ohnesorge (Swiss Federal Archives)*

'*' = apologies

Agenda:
1.	Secretary of the meeting (Karin)
2.	Update on CEF (Kuldar)

A meeting with the CEF people has taken place in Brüssels. They got information regarding the specifications and tools. They will return to the DLM Forum with further questions / suggestions.

3. 4.	Introduction to Workplan and Timeline (Karin)

Karin informed colleagues about the workplan and the timeline.

Actions: 
- More information regarding the actions needs to be obtained, and the time needed for each action updated (KB)
- Update draft timeplan for the workplan (KB)

4.	AoB (All)

None

5.	Next meeting

Tuesday 12th September 2017 9.00 UK time, Brighton

Actions: 
- Formal invitation will be sent (KB)
- How will the group work? The workplan needs clarifying, and a structure of work needs to be set up. Main discussion point at the meeting (KB)
- Read updated workplan and look at the timeplan. Main discussion point at the meeting (All)
- First ideas on how DAS Board and SIARD will collaborate. Will be discussed at the meeting (ABN)

Karin Bredenberg and Janet Delve
