Minutes for 5th of December 2017

Present: 
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair) (KB)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark) (ABN)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions) – Helder Silva via webex (HS)
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia) (KA)
•	Janet Anderson (University of Brighton) (JA)
•	David Anderson (observer from DLM Forum) (DA)

Regrets:
•	Gregor Zavrsnik (National Archives of Slovenia)(GZ)
•	Krystyna Ohnesorge (Swiss Federal Archives) (KO)


Agenda:
1.	Secretary of the meeting
2.	AoB to be added?
3.	Name, now’s the time to vote, 
4.	Update on CEF (David)
5.	Workplan (Karin et al) Please provide your workplan to Karin and Janet by the latest on Friday the 1st of December so we can make one document of them all.
6.	AoB
7.	Next meeting

1. Secretary – KB.

2. AOB:
a) Website (KA)
b) Website accessibility (DA, KA)


3. Name, after discussion the new name will be “Digital Information LifeCycle Interoperability Standards Board (DILCIS Board)”.
Action points:
-KB informs Zoltan
-KB updates the GitHub title name, the repository will have the old name
-DA gets the domain
-DA + KA makes sure re-pointers to the new name from the old one setup.

4. CEF Update. Meetings will take place during the end of this week with the CEF team in Brussels. There preparations for the coming work will be done.

5. Work plan. Deadline extended to the 31st of January 2018. In the Google Drive documents to aid the work are added by KB. The current work plan as a Word-document to be able to copy from and a document named “DAS Board work plan and timing.docx” where you can see how it’s thought to be done and also dependencies. Please add your work plan in this document. Teams will be setup in Github for the different tasks.

6. AOB
a) KA has updated the website. Look at it and also submit texts for the part you are responsible for!
b) There are issues with accessing the webpage. DA will check that the fee for the name has been paid.

7. Next meeting will be on Tuesday the 6th of February at the usual time 9.00/10.00/11.00


Karin Bredenberg, 5th December 2017
