Minutes

Members: 

•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
•	Karin Oolu (DLM)
•	Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)
•	Carl Wilson (A3, OPF) 
•	Jaime Kaminski (DLM)
•	David Anderson (observer from DLM Forum)
•	Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)

Text:

1.	Images
JK reports that we are quite advanced in terms of illustrations, 3/4 are entirely consistent format. KB suggests to use what JK have created before the next phase and then look up for collaborative tool. We need some kind of schema. It’s hard to implement one for figures and illustrations, but certainly for fonts, box sizes etc. we can do that. Decided: As we suppose to be ready by end of April, let JK finish with all images and making them this period and then we’ll look for more collaborative work in the next project phase.

2.	GIT instruction comments
Q to all: Have you looked into guidelines by CW, do you have questions? MF Q does that applies to everything incl all staff? Yes, for CSIP, its best to report review workflow. 
GZ Q about update the link where are the guidelines? - DILCIS board /DILCISboard.github.io. Also, geodata issues are moved from SIP to Geodata repository. GZ has got some comments separately from reviewers - put issues up but not label it with review label.

3.	CSIP issues
CW and KB started yesterday to go through issues for CSIP, closed about 20, but we have 169 open. For sorting we can use drop downs, we need to look into milestone SCIP ver 2.0, there are currently 26 open issues, and 10 which need discussion (can be seen with assigned to nobody). Many of these are regarding catalogue structure. KB and CW have agreed that we need a solid arguments for why we have this folder structure. But should we discuss the issues here or should they have comments in issue tracker for the issue? Not sure yet, discussion about possible ways of doing that takes place. 

KB is listing up all things we are going to do in next phase. Circulate it asap. 

CW asks whole group to think about that could you add an attribute to the CSIP? We need to set up a policy for that, how we can move forward with specs. KB comments SWE case where people should show there is more than one use case to add an attribute, one institution is not enough. We should keep METS as generous as possible. KB will add this to the list of to do’s for next project phase. 

MF minor status update. KB will go through all issues MF has assigned to her before travels next week as few of them might be specific for CSIP. 

ABN Q whether we have all comments included to GH from the review? Yes, all the issues from spreadsheet are under CSIP. But issue numbers are not included to spreadsheet. 

SS points out problematic situation that people who added comments don’t get any notification. KB explains the reason that we have not really defined the process for the review; we are using one from EC that says we need to remove the names. But we have sent an e-mail to people who responded and told them their issues are here. Decided: We need to set up the procedure and make it more elaborated. Issues in GH demands them to be GH users, that’s the downsize of GH. 

DA reminds everyone to fill in forms in Drive to be completed, urgency! SS Q what about the form to be sent to ministry? Put in to other directory. Guidelines for pic no were given.  

KB asks to react if everyone have got the document from she and CW about catalogue structure etc. Next meeting will be on 3rd of APR – the issues for different specs will be discussed. 

Notes by Karin Oolu
