Agenda 11th of May 2017

Welcome to the third meeting of the DAS Board

Present: • Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair) • Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia) • Gregor Zavrsnik (National Archives of Slovenia) • Krystyna Ohnesorge (Swiss Federal Archives)• Janet Delve (University of Brighton) • David Anderson (observer from DLM Forum) 
Connected via Webex:• Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark) • Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions) 
Agenda:
1.	Gregor Završnik from National Archives of Slovenia was assigned to be the Secretary of the meeting 

2.	CEF (Kuldar presented what it is and why we attend)
-	Connecting Europe Facility – supports implementation of cross border components that would allow reuse of E-ARK tools in other countries. 
-	The proposed building block (eArchiving) is worth further discussion (was voted as 2nd most interesting)
-	It build on top of Eark (tools, specifications…) Establish consultancy, training, dissemination materials, technical editing, formatting specifications…
-	The scope of the building block is greater than just the DAS board 
-	DLM Forum is the executable party communicating with EC on behalf of our consortium

Actions:
-	Work is continuing

3.	Github (Karin)
-	It is a common and open location for our meeting notes 
-	We publish all our Work documents there
-	We can set up working groups that are working on certain projects.

Actions:
-	Some specification is still not uploaded. We need to analyze what is missing and create a plan how to update it. Especially; Specifications, Schemas and Sample files

4.	Work plan (Karin et all)
-	Karin explained about the team guidelines. We need to grow in numbers, we are not enough people when the work needed is analyzed.
-	We expect that a Committee Secretary will be provided to us by the DLM board 
-	Proposed teams (everyone part of at least one team)
	* SMURF team (need for discussion regarding future implementations) update of the schema
    * Linked open data – will it somehow replace the current standards
  * Geodata
    * moving away from EAD, let’s just reuse the  ISO 19115 standard
    * Prepare the scope of work to the committee
  *	SIARD 
    * interest to create a Database Archiving interest group
    * SIARD 2.0 replacement issue – they propose a new, not backwards compatible with SIARD 2.0!
  * Common Specification
    * Goal to continue with dissemination
    * Core work would be to work on the METS profile
    * Further recommendations updating the common specification (the PREMIS part), development agreement, on AIP's, borderlines between Common Spec and SIP, AIP and DIP specs.
  * SIP /AIP /DIP
    *	We need a METS profile for each 3 types
  
  Actions:
  - Update the workplan. (KB)

6.	Timeline (Karin)
- We didn't get this far in the agenda.

7.	AoB
- No AoB

8.	Next meeting
- Next meeting will be before the holidays. The following meeting will be in co-junction with DLM Forum in Brighton.

Actions:
- A doodle for the before holiday meeting will be sent out. (KB)
- A doodle for attendance in Brighton will be sent out. (KB)

