DAS Board Meeting 14th February 2017

Agenda 14th of February 2017

Welcome to the first meeting of the DAS Board

Members: 
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Janet Delve (University of Brighton)
•	Gregor Zavrsnik (National Archives of Slovenia)
•	Susana Rodriguez (World Meteorological Organization)
•	David Anderson (observer from DLM Forum)
•	Ricardo Vieira (observer from DLM Forum / website)


Agenda:
1.	Presentation of who we are (All)
2.	Status of: webpage, mail groups and GitHub (Kuldar)
 
Actions: 
Get AIP info from AIT (JD), 
DIP (formatting issues) (ABN / KA), 
get SIARD versions + blurb (ABN); 
KB & JD to contact Krystyna Ohnesorge re. further collaboration; 
Look at the website and make any comments to DA and KA (All); 
Create Feedback forms for Github (KA); 
maintain specifications (ongoing specification owners). 
 
3.	Github for notes (Karin)

All minutes on Github. Revive / Create Github account and inform KA / KB (All);

4.	Workplan (Karin)

Action: Draft on Google Drive (KB ongoing);

5.	Economics (Karin)

Action: Send KB and JD ideas for using €5k from DLM.

6.	Start of discussion of ICA PCOM (all read documentation in mail from Kuldar)

When we have our workplan, discuss this issue at Malta. Read the document ready to discuss (All); 
Look to start building contacts with ICA (KB / KA / ABN).

7.	Pre-information regarding Malta meeting

Thursday 11th May 9-12 CET Contact Zoltan S re. the room booking.
Confirm attendance (real or virtual) All;
Set up webex meeting for Malta (JD)
  
8.	AoB
9.	Next meeting

Friday 7th April 2017 10.00 UK time, 11.00 CET, 12.00 EET. Set up webex meeting (JD)

Karin Bredenberg and Janet Delve
