Minutes for 12th of September 2017

Present: 
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair) (KB)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark) (ABN)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions) – Helder Silva via webex (HS)
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia) (KA)
•	Janet Anderson (University of Brighton) (JA)
•	Gregor Zavrsnik (National Archives of Slovenia) via webex (GZ)
•	Krystyna Ohnesorge (Swiss Federal Archives) (KO)
•	David Anderson (observer from DLM Forum) (DA)

Agenda:
1.	Secretary of the meeting
2.	AoB to be added?
3.	Update on CEF (David)
4.	Workplan (Karin et al)
5.	Timeline (Karin)
6.	AoB
7.	Next meeting
8.	Start work

1. Secretary – JA.

2. AOB:
a) INSPIRE discussion (GZ)
b) Relationship between DAS Board and DLM (KA)
c) OPF (KB)

3. CEF Update. The last meeting with the CEF team was in Brussels. We are now discussing budget / funding modalities / coordination office organisation. There are budgeted funds for specifications / DAS Board. Regardless of how the negotiations goes we need continuity now. Focus – specifications update this year. 
We are currently trying to plan engaging experts to undertake the CEF specifications tasks.
We also have to do the work before and after CEF funding.

We discussed what is the balance between testing and developing the specifications? Develop 2018 then test 2019. There is funding for updating tools, and some for a helpdesk. We need not-for-profit specification services (e.g. certification) in order to maintain them. Same for training etc. The specifications are available for anyone to create their own tools. By the end of 2018 we need to have the testing documentation available. We have a testing of specifications (in Swedish) set of forms from exemplar from Sweden (who hired a consultant for the work). 

We need everyone to use METS the same way, and have the European level, then the national level etc. In case of emergency, one national archive could safeguard SIPs from another national archive if necessary. The receiving archive might not see the specific EAD within the package, but could validate checksums etc. at a high level. 

A common specification (CS) for databases is underway, covering SIARD 2.0 and ADD-ML. Accompanying documentation and schemas are necessary to go with these specifications. With common specifications, there is the potential to cover thousands of customised content types. We are focussing initially on e-government needs etc. We need to produce a CS that is reliable and trustworthy, but it will take some time to be taken up etc. However, for the eArchiving Building Block (BB), we need to speed things up…In Sweden the CS is for everyone, but there is a lack of exchange formats for the information types.

(any comments on the DAS Board constitution / website are welcome).  

How would Switzerland (and eventually the UK) be involved? DLM expects to be tasked to hire experts, and they will organise this. We discussed the Slovenian and KEEPs input.

4. Workplan (KB) 
Karin updating, then will send to JA for editing. KO asked about using METS? KB. No, that is just for the package. This specification is based on: MoReq, E-ARK output which is based on MoReq2010, the schemas of particularly MoReq 2 (as it is hard to get schema elements from MoReq2010), and the Swedish tax office. In the process the types have been rationalised (E-ARK had 30 different formats!). ABN – there are lots of different ways of doing Records Management – how do we cover this? KB – MoReq covers this with the modularity which also is being implemented in the updated specification. ABN – users always want more access than provided, so what about EAD3. KB yes, this is taken care of in the new version (so we can extend and include special elements etc., extension schemas etc). 

Geodata (GZ)
KO asked which standard is being used? GZ - GML and tiff for raster. GZ checked SFA standard and liked it, but said more time was needed to work on this. ABN enquired about Tiff 6.0 for private tax, and commented that the Swiss standard was a good way of using things.
Adding in AoB #a
GZ presented about possibly extending the EAD schema to include film, scientific data etc. He discussed the need for new content-type specifications and search tools – i.e. we do not just use EAD. We can use geodata search databases. INSPIRE information is in the documentation folder, and can be added to the documentation folder. This is being implemented in Slovenia.

ABN asked about referencing associated data, e.g. railroad data. KB said there would be a link to the Digital Object (DO) – an INSPIRE data link which would be findable by a search engine. She re-iterated the need to avoid putting anything in the EAD “odd” field as it might not exist in another version. E.g. Swedish building permits will be added as a link or an inclusion of another XML-schema when exported from an ERMS. For the SMURF, using XML, put the geodata inside the document following its own XML-schema at the nearest useful place, or else have a link. It could be an ERMS, or a maintenance system.

A discussion followed regarding feature types, extension points, linking vs embedding. KA recommended using all metadata types: METS, EAD, SIARD, PREMIS and INSPIRE, and not worrying about overlaps. JD mentioned the absolute necessity of persistent identifiers. KO asked about integrating the schema into the SIP, and KB affirmed, saying that it is a document you are referencing: INSPIRE file, GML file should all be referenced.

KA asked about the process for filling the content-type placeholders? Descriptive metadata, mapping tables between standards, etc. all needed to be written down. KB said a package should be able to be used as is. With a schematron file for validation, you extend it when doing an implementation with your added rules.

Most important CS – need documentation and schematron.

SIARD (KO)
ABN proposed using Github as means of communication. KB said we need an issue template. KA also suggested perhaps setting up a database archiving interest group, with an annual meeting. KB remarked that until we have more content types, databases will be the most common content type. OPF / DLM could be contacted regarding organising database archiving collaborations. 
SIARD 2.0 is in German, English, and French. Italian is needed, and Spanish, Russian. We need general info on database archiving – cf CEF training. We must start looking at the whole preservation issue – preserve the whole e-government ecosystem (DW) – the system and all the databases it uses, showing how they interconnect (note that this is a good research topic). Business intelligence is an important aspect. 

CS – webex 2nd / 3rd week November. To be organised JA/KB
ABN – what about segmentation of large IPs? 

On hold - SIP, AIP, DIP, Documentation, Outreach, webpage, ICA PCom.

Github issues on CS for KA to address. 

5. Timelines – these have already been broken.

Last week of November is the last week for submitting your timeplan for 2018 

7. Webex for whole group in the week beginning December 4th. Karin to prepare doodle next week.

AOB. 
b) DLM / DAS Board. None of the group was happy with the recent logos – they lacked imagination – what was the brief they were given? The logos do not speak to the DAS Board members.

KA – secretarial support for DAS Board?


Janet Anderson and Karin Bredenberg, 18th September 2017 

