Minutes

Attendees: 
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
•	Helder Silva (KEEP Solutions)
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Janet Anderson (University of Brighton)
•	Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarch)
•	Karin Oolu (DLM)
•	Arne-Kristian Groven, National Archives of Norway
•	Sebastian Gleixner Bundesarchiv 
•	Carl Wilson (A3, OPF)
•	PhillipTommerholt (National Archives of Denmark)


1.	We need to decide reviewers for the text changes made in CS IP so the changes can be inserted to the document. And time periods for review and so on (Carl will lead this part) 

Work has been going on with requirements generation and and example generation from the profile, +METS profile,  its live now on the we-page. Issues going on now:  We need to make decisions 1.  What constitutes core review group to be sure the pull request is successful. 2. What’s the minimum time we keep pull request open to review 3. How long we allow to be it open to let reviewers to give the push and keep it running. 
KA comments the logic of how DILCIS board has been set up initially, who were responsible of one or many of the E-ARK specifications. Github review process: the owner of spec plus anyone the owner nominates. How long it is open: it depends , everything down’t need to be automated. The owner of spec can look the individual pull request and decide. If you have typo of pull request or if its conseptual question, leave it open and invite people to look at it specifically. We need guidelines and we may need a label ”close quickly” or ”don’t close quickly”. 
Agreed: New req site is live, do check the website. There are still a few broken links in specification, but they will be fixed over couple of near days. KB will present it next week meeting behalf of CW. 
KB sends out an e-mail to everyone who are the owners of specs with responsibilities. 

2.	Current status of  requirements validation (CW)

We have meeting with the team after an hour, there are still some issues, but hopefully will be solved by the end of this week. 

3.	Open issues regarding principles
- o	Principle 3.4 https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/174
Can metadata have its own represetation - should we reword  it or keep it as it is? KA comments the original purpose, it doesn’t matter. CW comments his understanding, to be careful with wording. GZ: it could be used with geodata specific metadata and archival spedific context metadata. Discussion about many different conseptual situations and wording possibilities. If  ”in representations” put ”into representations”, not agreed because they’re conceptionally different things,  JA disagrees. PT adds: ”creation of new metada and handling of different representations”

Agreed: PT will add new reworing for  the issue, CW and KB will check all principles in all requirements before hand them out.  
- o	Principle 3.5 https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/175
We add moscow in the explanaiton and its confusing. KA comments it was intended to give more clarity, positive, negative. 
Agreed: KB rephrases the 2nd part; ”.. must support local extensions or similar” and calls to CW if necessary
- o	Principle 3.6 https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/176
Copy the last sentence to 3.5, overlapping 
- o	Principle 3.7 https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/178
Problematic wording, can be understood like one package in one implementation. KA the idea is to balance longevity and interoperability, you have an xml specific and folder specific specification, CW comments that it makes me think thant i cant create different versions of my packages. But really we are talking about versions of specifications.  KB proposes that we shouldnt, must’nt implement csip in different ways in same implementation. If we use XML way we don’t introduce smth else in parallel. KA: When we do so then it means the old one is obsolete. We want to have technical and practical interoperability.
Agreed: KB and CW will give suggestions to KA and he can say. 
ABN asks about example, software implementation can go wrong as well.  AKG shares Norwegian experience, interoperability is complicated. We haven’t manage to receive the goals of interoperability because of many reasons, we have not included enough requirements to the processes and make it work properly. There are lot of challenges there. Maybe our structures are too complicated, database problems, versioning, our standard is too detailed, etc. KA: E-ARK specs are much better than NOARK. 
Issue assigned to KB and CW, thanks to all for explanations
- o	Principle 4.2 https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/179
What we mean by ”an umbigious use”? Discussion of different understandings of principles.  KB suggests to think about it. KA; metadata rules in CS IP must be clear, to state only one clear way how to use it.
AKG comments that it is not so simple, we should not forget specific categories of metadata which play different roles. The principle may be right to some types but not all. 
KA comments that the req is coming from the discussion we were having with METS, but METS offers too many alternatives how to do things, so we need to restrict it further. We say when we are implementing a new standard  in CS, then we always see that its not unambigious. As it is interoperability  requirement,  you should only propose one way of doing things, not allowed for multiple intepretations that brakes interoperability.   
Thanks to KA for the participation at the meeting. 
- o	Principle 4.3 https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/181
Dropped as it is just specification.

4.	Moscow classification of requirements
- o	Metadata folder https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/121

HS comments its just purely a technical matter. We can create an empty folder but its just it.
- o	Representation folder https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/122
- o	METS document presence https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/123
- o	Number of METS files and representations and presence https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/177
- o	Presence of folders in representations https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/180
 
KB will set up an extra meeting for Moscow discussions for A3 

Notes by: Karin Oolu
