Minutes
- Attendees:
•Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
•Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•Janet Anderson (University of Brighton)
•Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Tehnology)
•Jaime Kaminski (DLM)
•Karin Oolu (DLM)
•Carl Wilson (A3, OPF)
- Text:
CW introduces the situation of the test corpus - workflow of created corpus packages, test corpus actions, corpus cases rules, and it is hard to cover everything. Discussion of test corpus review. 
KB: We need to provide validation of added attributes in Schematron rows, structure rules as well, validate value list. CW describes the case if the value must be the set value, structure rules as well. 
KB will get the profile ready by tomorrow and we need to look at it also, read the profile line by line, if all decisions have been considered. All different requirements have ID-s, this is the thing we can reference: Profile is going to be the master for ID-s. Text and explanation are going to be important to CS IP. 
In the same time with test corpus, we have to read the profile - if we have covered all. 
- Plan agreed:
KB gets the profile ready by tomorrow lunchtime
Test corpus is in GH, E-ARK IP test corpus.
KB, KA, also MF and his team will review and give comments, + ESS team and SS team to test corpus. KB sends out the list with people responsible with that activity. 
- QA:
JA asks about minimum service offering descriptions for DLM meeting. KB can’t think about them until Monday to get the goal of CSIP profile ready. 
ABN asks about 15 open issues. KB: Profile is for the tables; all the tables with the elements are in the profile. All issues with comments can be closed if someone reviews KB. Textual issues can be looked after the profile is ready. Tables are going to be derived, one for each section, one for md sec, we have all the in the profile. Text not being in the profile. Splitting the spec to smaller parts. 
We need to use the METS version 1.12, the latest.  
Issue 140 - root level or representation level METS, ABN will send an e-mail to all of A2.
- Next meeting: Wed, Oct 24th we’ll go through what stage we are in different specs and make sure we have something ready for the review in Nov.  
-	Notes by: Karin Oolu


