Minutes 

- Attendees: 
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Janet Anderson (University of Brighton)
•	Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
•	Jaime Kaminski (DLM)
•	Karin Oolu (DLM)
•	Carl Wilson (A3, OPF)


- 1. Reviewing test corpus will be postponed to the next meeting, materials will be sent by Monday to everyone. CW comments work done regarding test corpus this far. Next meeting we are going to do a fake review to list of 17 structural cases. 

- 2. Planning of the work. Time we have left to review is 3 weeks and we have lot to do. 
Review process needs to be created: introduction that can be published on web page, also create a survey etc. Work is going on with it by KB and JK.
Discussion of tasks and work plan shared in Drive:
CSIP – we have text updates, text about splitting, we will have a full document for the review.
SIP – profile and updates to the text, everything is in GH format.
AIP – SS is on vacation and can’t give updates today. 
DIP – Move it to markdown, create a profile, update the text. ABN comments about few issues of the actual specific content. We can’t do it within 3 weeks. Option is not to markdown it now. KB will handle the profile. KB and ABN will have a separate meeting for that. 
MF: Concerning the CSIP we have dependency on the common specification, we need to close that before we can check the text in CSIP, coherence with CS. If there is the date when that will be closed? KB: It was 2 months ago and can be discussed maybe next meeting, after we have discussed principles. MF says they need at least one week to review. KB works hard with everyone to get SCIP ready. There is always more time needed for specs as expected. Our milestone is to have all specs ready by the end of Nov. JA shares experience from earlier and explains that it is more important to make things right, not only hit the deadline. SCIP is the bedrock. Profiles of SIP, AIP, DIP are more internal and need to be agreed upon between A2 and A3, not from whoever in Europe. But since we have a new schema for RM, spec for RM is not the same issue as having people agreeing to the schema. CSIP and RM are most important to get ready by the review. 
JA Q about Norwegian review on ERMS schema. KB have set the deadline for the next weekend. They are working on it; there are not too many changes. 
GEODATA – GZ comments that the document is in some shape, content is in there – can be reviewed. Gregor and KB will have separate meeting next week to discuss more detailed what we are going to have for the review.
SIARD - we could test getting approval for endorsement, needs to be discussed with KO from Swiss Federal Archives. 

- Recap: Separate meetings will be agreed with ABN and GZ. JA offers her help as she is available next week. Agenda for meeting with Manuela is set next Monday and KB will circulate what they will come up with ambition and how we need to change our focus. CSIP and RM are the most important thing and lets focus on them. Next week CW will aid us and guides us what he expects us to do. 
