Minutes
1.	Attendees (mark absence with a * in the list)
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	* Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Janet Anderson (University of Brighton)
•	Gregor Zavrsnik (National Archives of Slovenia)
•	* Krystyna Ohnesorge (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Tehnology)
•	* David Anderson (observer from DLM Forum)
Extending guests A2 E-ARK4ALL: 
•	Jaime Kaminski (DLM)
•	Karin Oolu (DLM)
•	* Sebastian Gleixner (Bundesarchiv)
•	* Carl Wilson (A3, OPF)
•	PhilipTommerholt (National Archives of Denmark)
2.	Text
- KB introduces updated document from last weeks meeting, also updated examples. MF explains why is it not right to do that way as it is in the updated document at the moment. Janet comments about the value list we are suggesting (METS TYPE attribute doesn’t have a list). That needs the same granularity, e.g health is an area, not type of data as, e.g database. MF explains example what Library of Congress is using, http://www.loc.gov/preservation/resources/rfs/TOC.html. Geodata can be vector, raster or combined, Q is what’s the use case for that description, why we need that. MF suggests that the list should be populated when we have special profiles, it depends on organisation. In representation level we can be more specific, we can say, e.g, its mp3 or tiff files. KB updates the document accordingly. Discussion of renaming CONTENTINFORMATIONTYPE that we need on lower level. Long names has their advantages, abbreviations may cause confusion. Discussion of pros and cons takes place. MF asks to discuss not defined value. Do we need that? Mixed means we actually know the content type, e.g, database, or excel sheet. Not defined means we never know what user comes up with.  Semantics are different, but the way of handling them are quite the same. We keep the OTHERCONTENTTYPESPECIFICATION attribute also just in case. That is needed to be available in the representation level. 
KB updates the new version of the document. MF suggest to share the document in google drive, agreed. 
- KA and KB have been looking at StructMap, some work left, KB will send it out. 
- KB: work in SIP, AIP, DIP continues, they’re in GH, start working with that. GH tutorial is recorded and link will be shared. 
- No meeting next week due to iPRES in Boston. ABN have created issues in GH, but these can wait 14 days. KB is back by the meeting on Oct 3rd. 
ABN didn’t know where to put his sample METS file, KB haven’t had time to discuss it with Carl. ABN keeps working with issues next 14 days, sends KB the list of all issues and it will be discussed on the next meeting. 
GZ can’t open the tutorial link. 
3.	Next meeting 
- DILCIS board + A2 on Oct 3rd. 
-	Notes by: Karin Oolu
