Minutes

Members: 
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
•	Janet Anderson (University of Brighton)
•	Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
•	Karin Oolu (DLM)
•	Carl Wilson (A3, OPF) 
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (National Archives of Denmark)

- Text: 
CW reports about DIP spec uploaded to GH. SS comments it looks good, really good point to start with. CW describes details of document references in footnotes, page numbering etc. The last job to do is generation of PDF, uses also Pandoc. Realistic deadline for that will be early next week. ABN Q about AIP, SS comments the status of it. CW gives comments about the current state of the document, it will appear in the next days, in couple of days there will be markdown version. 

Shared links: 
https://carlwilson.github.io/E-ARK-AIP/
https://github.com/carlwilson/E-ARK-AIP/blob/master/index.md

ABN Q about images, there are few things to look, maybe after review. Discussion of editing diagrams, they actually look quite good, put them to the open source, most of our diagrams don’t need editing, etc. We need to decide together what to do with them. ABN suggest to do that after actual review, later, when it’s clear who are our target audiences who explore graphics and formats. Discussion about removing Premis part, just referring to it. JA Q if we can recommend Premis? SS yes, we keep the Premis part as a recommendation, at least basic recordings. But we should think about removing the vocabulary, 5.3.2.1, Premis vocabulary in the AIP– its good to people to have it, but it should be maintained elsewhere. We need some semantic standards to use vocabulary, and then refer to it in text. ABN comments it’s rather crucial Q. SS would remove just concrete vocabulary and say in concrete point that vocabulary is maintained e.g here. 

Agreed: SS propose to Karin to have in some central point Dilcis vocabulary, maybe some index page. Then we can decide later what we’ll do concretely. E.g Dilcis vocabularies, and put there some page and summary where we maintain it and what format etc. 

ABN Q about migration events, SS will look at it and put other as reviewers. 

ABN Q about manifest files. SS comments the manifest fail is optional, I think it’s a good idea to have it. Idea was to have whole EARK package to Bagit. 

Meeting concludes with an acknowledgment that we have to accept that SIP AIP DIP are not fully aligned and we’ll do that in Jan and Feb. 
Notes by Karin Oolu
