Minutes
- Attendees 
•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Jaime Kaminski (DLM)
•	Karin Oolu (DLM)
•	Carl Wilson (A3, OPF)

1. Secretary of the meeting - Karin Oolu
2. Welcome to special guests
3. Open GitHub issues with label DILCIS

- a. https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/4
Splitting issue. ABN: There are several things to look at, one of them is that if this will be a recommendation or requirement? It may be sufficient right now for having it as a recommendation, but later, next year, we are going to make it a fixed part of specification. We have few conflicts, e.g segmentation, which is crucial part for any archive. So, we have short term issue and long term issue.  KB comments about Swedish experience which was the same, easy way. It was agreed to see it now being as a recommendation as we have only 8 weeks until review. ABN, KB and PT will have separate meeting in Skype and will look small issues together, also AIT, Keeps and CW are interested to participate. And later we’re going to have 3 months of review period to look to sequence and have time to make other refinements. 
It was agreed to make a new label for segmentation in GH. Branch is a good way to present differences in the spec regarding segmentation. KB suggests to get an example from KO for SIARD database splitting.
ABN shows schema of root level METS files and representation level METS files. If we have Master IP in the left then we dont have to repeat the EAD in every single segmentation. KB points out that the picture is actually wrong.  
KA suggest SS to be interested of the talk as AIP  has similar splitting concepts included. Also KEEPS is interested as well.
KA: Revisit the initial discussion of use cases, 20TB object, e.g why just dont do bit level segmentation every 500 MB going to one segment, why do it on METS side. Fundamental question.  
ABN updates the issue nr 4. And Google Drive folder for splitting. 
Agreed to have a separate meeting and  postpone the details for the review period. 

- b. https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/6
Contenttypespecification, connected with #10.

- c. https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/10
Lot of connected issues and info in Google Drive. Agreed to postpone this one, as the last thing agreed was OK to use the list from Library of Congress. 
KB sends out an e-mail as more Yes answers from DILCIS board are needed.   

- d. https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/71
fileSec. We have said that we can transfer  just descriptive metadata and add admin metadata. File sec is mandatory. Its the content we are sending. 
KA: What are requirements? Does METS allow an emtpy fle sec as well? CW: METS allows
KA: We have said that we need just one file to describe in file sec. 
KB writes and sums up the issues and sends an email everyone to comment.
KA: SS opinion is much needed there. 

- e. https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/83 
StructMap. We have suggestions, comments from Heldar, CW.
KB suggests to call a special StructMap meeting. KA: StructMap issues are crucial, others are depending on that, so it needs to have solution in next two weeks. There is nothing saying what it should look like and its mandatory. Only thing we actually can prepare for the meeting is struct map examples what we have. CW is working on description workflow. Look the METS schema, the primer is the ruling document. 
Decision to have a new meeting for that issue, probably on TUE Oct 9th.

- f. https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/129
Reconsider describing the optional use of altRecordID, for packages which are faulty. 
KA Q Should  it be a mandatory part of package? ABN: How other archives can handle it, it may be difficult if machine readable ID-s. KA: thats usual problem, it also depends on scenario. I see a point, but i can’t see possibility to make it mandatory. ABN: as long we are humans, it also makes adoption easier, if its optional we cant rely on the producers of the software to support. CW agrees with the point. KA explains the problem in the application, from the implementation point of view. Detailed discussion of transfer and possible place where to say what. 
KA recalls to KA that we need to have impl guidelines, but we don’t plan it for this year. We are describibg what we demand from package, not what standard can do. How do you create your local profile, local impl depends on it.
KB writes a comment that implementation guide will be developed some time and will close the issue. Its the main thing to do in A2 in the following 2019.  

- g. https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/130
IP with no representation -  have been discussed earlier. 

4. Terminology - root level and representational level (Anders Bo)
ABN explains that its just to explain to people. It comes at the glossary, or explanation in CSIP. 

- Sum up: ABN updates issue nr 4, KB sends one mail for each thing to make it easier to solve. 
5. Next meeting

- Notes by: Karin Oolu
