Minutes

Members: 

•	Karin Bredenberg (National Archives of Sweden, chair)
•	Karin Oolu (DLM)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Tehnology)
•	Carl Wilson (A3, OPF)
•	PhilipTommerholt (National Archives of Denmark)

Agenda:

1.	Open CSIP questions
2.	Date for delivery of all specs
3.	Updates to dilcis.eu

Text:

CW shows to MF specific case on screen and will send an e-mail so MF can make corrections. 

1.	Open CSIP questions

KB shares the screen, what’s ready and what’s not: Roman numbers- not totally ready. Please send info to KB if images missing. SS Q about sources, Visio. Please raise an issue in GH. KB asks JK to contact with SS to update the master file. 

CW gives a list what will be changed. Generate contents of PDF, acknowledgements, revision history, relations not ok with, but rest of the sections - happy to declare they are done. 

Common shared introduction to all documents – KB reminds an issue regarding introduction under group documentation (https://github.com/DILCISBoard/GroupDocumentation/issues/17). People are lacking description of how release is really connected. KB suggests to go for really short one. In the case of really short introduction in the beginning we don’t need to layout intro in all specs. MF suggest to have pointers to other documents. PT has created longer version, MF suggests smth between them. KB comments that this supposed to go to ERMS spec as well, which is really overloaded with IP-s. Are we supposed to update it with every CITS we have? KB will talk with JK tomorrow about having it before the introduction. ERMS and Geo spec-s are not in GH format yet, we need a format to copy-paste. MF Q if his text is in markdown should he remove it? Yes. SS and ABN will get the same info and do the same. In presentations we will use the same corrected images. They are really readable now. 

Please read CSIP if you have time, we are not going to do revolutionary changes but some spots we can correct. CW points out one pull request /https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/pull/511/files), row 1044, mandatory struct map – do we really need to show the values? 1095 – not so sure about div label here, not sure since struct map is the only mandatory element do we need to define that in every following requirement? Discussion about details. PT will look at it. CSIP 88 and 90 - specific Q to PT, will look at it later.  

CW Q also about if single term vocabulary is a good idea? MF Q if there are potential for growth? You can change it if there are more than one element. Examples. 

Paths. At the moment we have URL type of paths. Should references be in package level or representation level? Does that sound like a good idea? There is no correct way stating relative path references, file references and URL does not exist.  Defining our own path types? ABN says it’s a long debate in SIARD as well, shares the link, it digs exactly the same concerns and compromise made in SIARD. KB comments SWE case, file paths are necessary, but people ask how many slashes you need to have? It might be a bigger Q and may be moved to the next project phase. Discussion about possibilities and details. CW will circulate an elegant proposal.

Recap: KB and CW will send out an e-mail. 

2.	Date of delivery of all specs

GZ spec not finished until the next week. Bern meeting next week. We need to publish before the project ends, we are overdue a month, but we can justify that. Discussion about finding the time that suits to everyone. 

Roundup for specs: most of issues closed in SIP, most of them are related with generation of PDF, concerns about alignment between specs, related to terminology, will talk to KB later. MF can probably meet the deadline, will work with KB and CW next week in Bern to solve the rest of the issues. SS Q about if CW will generate them? Yes. ABN comments that there is very few time left, just today and tomorrow. Next week we only have 24th of May. Looks rather difficult. KB trying to finish with ERMS to be ready this week. 

3.	Webpage updates 

There are several places where specs should be published. We need to say when we publish. Discussion about finding the time. 30th and 31st of May will be reserved only for JK for final editing, no bugs etc are allowed then. Can’t postpone as everything have to be ready a week before the review. 

Recap: KB will send an e-mail to coordinators everything will be ready by 29th, copy to A2. Cancel the meeting on 21st. Keeping meeting on 29th to check in everything, and publishing on 31st of May. 

MF Q about how to call the organisations who prepares the materials to be sent to the archive? Different agencies, depends on the legal system they have. Very often we say it must be the producer. KB adds at the same time we have creator, connected with provenance. Def in METS regarding these terms. Its directly related to education. PT adds def from OAIS. In DK there can be different kind of producers. METS def is lacking the producer agent as defined by OAIS. The problem is in description, one of the reviewers didn’t understand what we mean by archival creator. Decided: MF will change the text and make it clearer according to METS. 

Next meeting: May 29th. 

Notes by: Karin Oolu
