# **Minutes DILCIS Board 2020-08-12**


## **Members attending:**



*   Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
*   Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
*   Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
*   Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)*
*   Kuldar Aas (National Archvies of Estonia)*
*   Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
*   Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
*   Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
*   David Anderson (Highbury IVS)

*=absent 


## **Agenda:**



1. Secretary
2. Change request regarding CITS Geospatial


## **Notes:**


### Secretary

Karin will make the notes.


### Change request regarding CITS Geospatial

Gregor has provided the board with information and material regarding the change request for CITS Geospatial to be turned into an OGC ( [https://www.ogc.org/](https://www.ogc.org/) ) community standard following the oral agreement made on the 16th of June when Gregor presented the CITS Geospatial to OGC. Today's meeting was to orally discuss the questions the board needs to answer to make the decision of this.


#### Introduction

OGC is an open organisation responsible for a number of standards within the geo community. Some of them have been turned into ISO standards. Gregor is in contact with them and has a contact person Joan Masó (JM) regarding a GIS standard that might be used in the CITS GIS. During OGC’s annual meeting Gregor presented he CITS Geospatial for them and the agreement to apply for CITS Geospatial to become a community standard was made. In the process of making it a community standard there are sponsors needed within the OGC who supports the application.


#### The questions for the board to answer



1. Do you agree to proceed with the adoption process of the CITS Geospatial 2.0., within OGC, as a Community Standard?
2. Should we adopt any normative changes proposed to the CITS Geospatial from OGC members or just correction of errors?
3. Do you agree to make structural changes to the specification in order to comply with the OGC Modular Specification Policy?
4. Do you agree that we should undergo the development of CITE tests if required?
5. Do you think the DILCIS Board should retain the IPR for the CITS Geospatial 2.0?


#### The answers during the meeting

The questions were discussed in a different order.


##### 2. Should we adopt any normative changes proposed to the CITS Geospatial from OGC members or just correction of errors?

Clarification on what's meant with normative is needed. Gregor will ask JM.


##### 3. Do you agree to make structural changes to the specification in order to comply with the OGC Modular Specification Policy?

The answer is depending upon what is asked to be done. 

Anders Bo asked if there were enough sponsors for the CITS Geospatial to become a community standard? The answer is that being backed by EU will be a good way of getting the needed sponsorships.

One wanted change might be the need of implementing the GeoPackage ( [https://www.geopackage.org/](https://www.geopackage.org/) ) . What is implied with adding that?


##### 4. Do you agree that we should undergo the development of CITE tests if required?

The CITE tests might be validation that is needed. The big question here is what is supposed to be validated, the package or the content? Currently only the CSIP package can be validated. Does there need to be CITE tests created?  Gregor will check with JM.


##### 5. Do you think the DILCIS Board should retain the IPR for the CITS Geospatial 2.0?

We are using open standards for the publication. But the question cant be answered until we get clarification of what a yes implies. Gregor will check with JM.


##### 1. Do you agree to proceed with the adoption process of the CITS Geospatial 2.0., within OGC, as a Community Standard?

Can be answered when the open questions have a reply.


#### Additional notes

An update to the CITS Geospatial means that a new request and all the work for applying to be an OGC community standard needs to be remade.

GeoPackage contains all information like EAD and PREMIS and uses a virtual structure. Can it be placed in the data folder as is?

Gregor will look into the GeoPackage and compare it with CISP and SIP.


## **Decision of Workplan:**

Gregor prepares a draft for the application by beginning of week 34. (Week starting with 17th of August.)

Gregor contacts JM with the questions.

Gregor will inform Fulgencio who will aid with the application and inform about the current status of the application.

The DILCIS Board will discuss the change request again in the first week of September and make a decision regarding the change request.


## **Notes by:**

Karin Bredenberg, 2020-08-12
