Minutes

- Members:

•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
•	Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)First 
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

- Agenda: 

A2 Workplan and reporting 

- Text:

Workplan and extra document describing different tasks is not ready yet, but in closing in phase. 

Next full A2 meeting will be on Mar 18th. Meeting slot in Webex is available on the 4th or the 11th, please let know to KB.

- Progress report of specs:

Overall admin/ KB reports they have been updating KPIs. Numbers delivered were the same. No updates in CSIP.

AIP/ SS was looking into document what Germans provided about e-Signatures and new ETSI-Standards TS 119 511/TS 119 512 and TR-ESOR, sent by JA on 25. Feb 2020 14:27 via e-mail. How should this influence the IP work? KB suggest reading German version, not English. KB and JA comments that as we understand the signature is smth that you can store in archival IP, but they are seeing signature is being in IP checker, it’s hard to understand. SS Q about using AIP, Roda is using AIP export format. SS needs to present AIP to archival institution and get feedback; KB will get back on that matter. 

DIP/ ABN: Reviewing and comparing it with SIP, it was in changes this far. It will take some weeks to propose, most likely in April. 

Geodata/ GZ not present

RM/ KB: no change

SIARD/ ABN: Organizing group work, also trying to write CITS. Considering making actual examples. 2 different ISO standards (look what is inside data folder and segmentation part how it looks in METS file), figure out if we can manage to merge them.

E-Health 1/ SM reports they have met Norwegian Health Archive and e-Health Authority to discuss Norwegian standard. Draft metadata structure for e-health1 SIP, where things are going to be located within folder structure, in metadata structure, also align with e-Health2 team in this point. Starting writing some text.   

E-Health 2/ AP: continue working with Cancer Registry, have made kind of a diagram, contacted Norwegian Cancer Register. Working separately from e-Health1 group. JS adds that e-Health2 is step down from e-Health1 group, we have been managed to indicate the input, but we are not analyzing specs yet. KB suggest these 2 groups do some coordination. 
SM reports he had a meeting with AI AC in Lyon last week, I can make an introduction for them.  

Premis/ KB: Not started yet

Archival description/ KB: we will have a revision meeting regarding EIC-CPF in two weeks, will talk to Kristin Arnolds f2f and see how we can combine our efforts. They are looking for EAD3. 

Guidelines and procedures/ KB with JK: started up the work creating new CITS and revision of the CITS, also review, last time we had to make a lot of forms and it was not easy. We’ll go through them, and that needs to be ready by M10. 

Endorsement and certification/ KB: not started yet but will be started soon. 

- AOB:

JA reports about e-mail from Jan Karving, EU Parliament are interested in taking up and they are going to have a meeting on Mar 3rd. They get guidance from Publication Office. None of us is invited, but KEEPs will be there to demo Roda. 

Fulgencio has been invited to speak at the ICA at the SIO to Steering Committee in June. 

The report from Dec event is now on the website. There are some conclusions, its positive. 

- Next meeting on Mar 18th, 
- Notes by: Karin Oolu
