EARK3 A2 meeting on 19th of August 2020

# Minutes

## Members:

•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
•	Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
•	Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS) 
•	Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
•	Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Martin Speller (OPF)
•	Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)

Apologies: 
•	Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
•	Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
•	Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)


## Text: 

Focus today will be on SIARD, the next A2 meeting will be on Sep 2nd. 

All docs are available for comments in A2 folder in Drive, the deadline for internal review is Sep 1st.

-	Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ KB: The next review is on Oct. 

*IP-s*/ KB: All are in maintenance mood. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ is away. 

*RM*/ The draft is in Drive.

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM: The draft is in Drive, final adjustments done, hope that ver 1 will be ready by this week. Welcome to comments! 

*E-Health 2*/ The team is working behind the scenes, writing text. 

*Premis*/ KB: Ongoing work, the doc is in Drive, waiting for comments from Luis Faria. 

*Archival description*/ KB: The draft is in Drive. We are not creating a new profile for any other archival standards. We are relying on that people already have and Archival Portal Europes key thing is to be able to deliver things to Europeana. If you are using  Archival Portal Europe EAD profile already then you don’t have to reinvent and come up with mapping between Europeana and archival world. 

*Guidelines and procedures*/ Not in Drive as they are not ready. KB and JK are recording what we did last time; we need input to get a broader and more usable procedure. 

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: We can start with it when other docs are finished. 

- *SIARD*/ 

Status update: 

Use cases/ MM reports working with a summary of the findings, collecting country-specific topics and linking to SIARD spec. Work is a little bit late, but compressing the final summary. 

(1) The draft document of SIARD-2.2.0 RFC Format Specification. New ver of SIARD, a part of DILCIS board in order to focus on scalability to be able to handle LOBs. Draft sent to all in the middle of July but got comments only from KB, KA and LR. 
(https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1Clqjap8PpJjxnmljI9ot5fQ2L7yZAvUN)

(2) Draft of CITS for SIARD. It has to incorporate to the current version, how to place LOBs, how to describe how to place LOBs. Discussion postponed to next week meeting due to the short meeting time this time.
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/161CS7Qc1lgobb19W9itUPypClfQNf4IC/edit)

User group/ LR, KA and PT – see how we can get resources to get on that part. 

ABN runs through and explains SIARD format specification document (1) which includes how we are handling actual LOBs (Siard 2.2)?; the difference between LOBs are stored outside or inside of SIARD file; if LOBs are internal or external; internal LOBs can be inside or outside of SIARD file, but external is always outside of SIARD file. Also, detailed explanations of all parts of segmentation and splitting which are included in ch 8 and 9. Doc is waiting for comments in Drive!

PT shows where to find CITS for SIARD draft (2). Thanks for the comments KB and JA, waiting for others to comment, especially to example package PT have created. Also, there is a Q about guideline text to agree with KB, should it be here or is it too technical. Example package links to the work with A3. Package METS and Representation METS - please look into them, we’ll talk about it in the meeting after a week! PT will create different tables of XML and a new version based on the feedback from KB. 

JA Q about ENG language check to ABN. Comments can be added directly to G-Docs. ABN comments that typos are there from last versions, didn’t have time to correct yet. 

KB Q about whether to do 2 separate meetings next week, will be decided later and will be let know to all. 

ABN comments it's important that 1st version is not fixed and unchangeable. We are not locking things down, rather waiting for decent proposals. KB adds that it goes to all specs. 

PT Q about schematron document, where can we find resources? CW knows tough ones and SS can help also. PT will put up a separate call if needed to solve that. 

Next meeting is on Sep 2nd focusing on CITS SIARD

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
