EARK3 A2 meeting on 12th of August 2020

# Minutes

## Members:

•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
•	Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
•	Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
•	David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
•	Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS) 
•	Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Martin Speller (OPF)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
•	Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)

Apologies: 

•	Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
•	Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway 
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 

## Text: 
A reminder of deadlines: Sep1st! Guideline for CSIP-s and other docs is going out a week before. To manage all that we have the next A2 meeting next week. 
All specs are loaded to Drive, no comments yet but its possible to add. 

-	Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ KB: Not much have happened, KB and JK contd working with texts of each spec. 

*IP-s*/ KB: All are in maintenance mood, RM is available in GDrive. 

*SIARD*/ PT: By end of the week we will send out the CITS SIARD spec for internal review, can be found in Drive. The note will be sent out. MM comments on the status of SIARD use cases, case study 1 should be finalized next week, case study 2 large object is in progress. LR comments about user group document, which is not changed since last time due to vacations. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM: The draft is in Drive, have been dealing with METS profile, produced extended vocabulary, etc. Expects the draft almost complete next week. 

*E-Health 2*/ KB reports the team is working in the background since their schedule is moved. 

*Premis*/ KB: Ongoing work, the doc is in Drive, waiting for Luis Faria to give comments. MF will remind him to give comments latest by Sep 1.

*Archival description*/ KB: Available in Drive. 

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: Guidelines for CSIP and other IPs, Premis and Arch Description is in the Drive, but not be finished before adding examples. We are using the review to get input from people what they are expecting. 

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: The doc is waiting in the background. 

PT Q about CITS SIARD type vocabulary, related to the issue put up to GH. KB confirms that this can be done ad hoc as we need the same for the E-Heatlh1, its in the agenda. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ The Geo CITS 2.0.2 update presentation by GZ focusing on what change requests were requested, major changes done and open questions feedback. Presentation link to Drive: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1r_zRp9JKDfPMQ7tFPYSz3wlLcLGlUrKS?sort=7&direction=d

Discussion of 2 open Q-s takes place. 

1.	Schema compliance. 

MF thanks GZ for the presentation, its easier to read and comment, images are much clearer now. Discussion about levels of representations. What GZ consider as representation is depending on the implementation. One idea would be to create a separate guideline, but it's not useful. MF argues that if there are 2 representations of the same data, repr information included, there are 2 pathways to render the data. The idea is that you may drop one of the representations and keep the new one, copy them. KB comments we need some time to look into the folder structure. 

Also, it was pointed out that within representation 1 we should have folders with specific names like data, metadata and documentation. GZ will correct this.   

2.	 LT preservation formats management. 

GZ proposed to discuss it within the consortium, it applies to other data as well. MF explains thoroughly 3 levels of compatibility, at the moment we are on level 1.  Suggestion to GZ would be to specify as much as you can in geo CITS, but it's not yet done in other of our documents as it takes time and is hard one to solve. Thanks to MF for good comments and information! 

Geo CITS ver 2.0.3 will be provided with implemented comments, but for the ver 2.0.2 please give feedback to GZ, technical questions or if smth unclear. The link will be sent to Arne Kristjan, also anyone else is welcome who is dealing with implementing geo-data. 
MF informs about new employee of the same field, would be good him to contact GZ. 
ABN comments that we may have too many options to go through with Geo CITS, but we can consider that after the review. GZ comments that we were instructed to have looser req than in E-ARK, therefore additional examples are added. The best interoperability approach would be to have one standard that limits the possibilities. Thre are many different examples of types of geodata formats. Some archives have many options for geo formats, which can be very specific. Its important topic for further discussion.

Next meeting is on Aug 19th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
 
