# Minutes per capsulam 2020-07-07

## Members who voted by email: 
 - Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
 - Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
 - Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
 - Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
 - Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
 - Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)

## Change detail:
The AIP needs to be investigated and possibly adapted to accommodate two different user groups:
1.	Archives where the core business is e-archive and making sure digital material is accessible on the long term.
2.	Others who just have an e-archive for storing material and archiving is not the main business.

Worksteps:
1.	The first step is to create a white paper which defines the two groups and gives suggestions regarding changes required in the AIP specification.
2.	DILCIS Board approval of the white paper.
3.	The next step is to get the broader community reviewing the proposed changes. (Using the review in October, M12)
4.	Update of white paper after feedback.
5.	Implement the changes into the AIP specification.
6.	Publish the updated specification.

 
## Change impact in relation to DILCIS and E-ARK3:
*Timeline*: The White paper will be created during the summer of 2020. The change can be brought to the bigger community together with the specification review periods in the E-ARK3 project, starting in October. Publication of updated specification in the end of the project time.<br/>
*Criticality*: We need to get the vendors to implement the specifications and the AIP specification is so far hindering them to fully uptake. Note that the intention of the proposed change would also to make adaption of the AIP specification more flexible, i.e. that it does not have to be implemented necessarily as the long-term storage information package format, but also as an information package export format which includes the complete provenance track of the information package.<br/>
*Risk*: If the specification does not get updated, there is the risk that there is no uptake of the standard by archival system vendors at all.<br/>
*Cost*: The cost would be covered by DILCIS Board work and the time planned for the AIP specification.<br/>

## Decision:
The change request is agreed upon with a vote of yes.

## Notes by:
Sven Schlarb, 2020-07-06
