Minutes

Members:

•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
•	Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
•	David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS) 
•	Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
•	Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia) 
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
•	Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
•	Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)

Text:

KB explains the updated work plan (circulated also via e-mail:  https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1TOfwYuv1lOmMbYrM8bPRPZb31WZxshT3). 
We are doing everything combined with a timetable where we have all delivery dates, review tasks. Technical review (A3), Oversight review (JA or JK), Specs review + Year1 review for the whole project. WP tasks are in the table, more detailed in the description column. The important part is progress tracking. This is going to be ready by the next meeting on May 13th,  (OPF will join our meeting). It will be in a template in word. We’ll have a similar sort of template for guidelines.  KB has a template in word for specification, maybe not all specs will not be in GH format. KB is testing that out. 

- Progress report of specs:

Overall admin/ KB reports that SODs came back with comments, have been updated and handed over back. Our focus is to create specs. 

IP-s are in maintenance mood. KB and CW have been looking at transformations, hope to be fixed and implemented by the end of May.  

Geodata +GIS/ GZ reports the progress of geo part: very good webinar presentation last week, 8 downloads of GeoCITS spec, received a couple of GH comments and pdf file from Mapping Agency. GeoCITS are being maintained, in progress. Also got confirmation that GeoCITS will be in consideration for community practice of ODC, which means people will look and give comments. Also started guidelines doc with emphasis on the implementation in the archives, 2nd part will be an implementation of the lifecycle. 

RM/ KB: handed over to OPF now for the check if it's possible to move to GH format. Also validation part they are going to look in A3.  

SIARD/ ABN comments cont. of work: going to have a meeting with Luis next week, regarding the matter of holding large databases. Also working with the part of actual needs and use cases. LR proofed user group which has so far had a quiet life in GH. We are on track, but time is running. We’ll also have the check between both SIARD spec and spec for the tables and flops, implementation of actual CITS as such and its relation to SIP and AIP. 

E-Heatlh1/ SM reports about productive 2 weeks, broadly on the plan.  At the moment completing METS on the tables and METS will be done this week.  Next week will move to the more general sections.  

E-Health 2/ AP reports they got back in touch with cancer registry, moving on with point 1.0, waiting for feedback to table of contents of the spec. They are very slow to respond which is understandable in circumstances.  

Premis/ KB: different IPs moved to one document, currently JK reading. Hopefully, in 2 weeks it will go to Keeps/Luis.    

Archival description/ KB: handed over to Archives Portal Europe. As soon as they are ready they will give feedback. 

Guidelines and procedures/ KB have started with guidelines for IPs, we’ll have 1 guideline for all. All other parts are getting into this doc, but we need to talk with ABN about DIP part. Template will be for that, with explanations. 

Endorsement and certification/ KB: haven’t started since the focus is on review.  

- SIARD team will use the Webex time today and next week, Next meeting on May 13th.

- Notes by: Karin Oolu
