EARK3 A2 meeting on 30th of Sep 2020

# Minutes

## Members:

• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)

Apologies: 
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)





## Text: 

Next meeting is on Oct 14th. 
Today we need to have confirmation if all specs are ready, check if created info texts and statistics have been updated. No extension time, JK and KB need time to finish everything.  



- Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ JK and KB have been working in parallel with publishing the annual report, A1 (JA) is getting template ready for it. KB may ask short input from the team.

*IP-s*/ KB: All are in maintenance mood. There will be changes after getting feedback of splitting done with the help of SIARD. 

*SIARD*/ KB has got links of RFC for SIARD and CITS for SIARD by e-mail, thanks to ABN for the big information document. ABN (RFC for SIARD) points out that it is important to notify the right people, almost all of the public sector will comment the spec as soon as KB says when. KB will shorten the text of RFC to fit it to the webpage. Its just not the one place, we are informing the commission, Charlotte and Becky, the rest of the world. KB and JK can't say the time when it will be published, but the latest in October. We have one survey per each spec which means having the link to the page where to find them, ABN has to pinpoint to RFC. The link to the doc needs to be on the webpage and correct folder in GH. KB will keep in contact to get the links to the correct places. 

PT (CITS for SIARD) has created the questions KB has asked, everyone please take a look at the questions of the CITS of SIARD and have a dialogue with us. 

MM (case studies) reports that case study 1 and 2  are ready to give to review, everybody can give comments and feedback. Links:
Case Study 1: Experiences with workflows and documentation practices.
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1b-WWLZNrcEzFu8AgvjVApuhxXGMLUU9Um53RVo3EPhM/edit?usp=sharing
Case Study 2: Experiences working with large objects and big amount of data
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zq7RG_IqYiDOYHI2wBr0NuIigv_Xb7INz2uaB9jVmWE/edit?usp=sharing

LR (user groups) reports they had one meeting last week regarding user groups, most of the work done is regarding case studies. Please LR let us know when we need to do things and share a list that we should enter in. ABN, LR, KA and PT made a list of tasks we have to perform. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ reports finished corrections to the spec, it's uploaded to the Drive and sends the correct link to KB. Have added some elements from internal users of DNA,  also corrected the IP structures. Missing the infotext, but will finish it today by noon /12CET, KB will start with surveys today. Regarding GIS had a meeting on Monday, discussed the use of standards, things are progressing, the next meeting in two weeks. GZ Q what are the statistics? KB in drive please add how many comments you have, e-mail was sent on Sep 2nd.

*RM*/ KB: All is ready, incl info texts, JK will fix the language. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM reports the doc is ready. Q e-health1 is not maybe the best name, maybe add a Q about the name (same with RM).  

*E-Health 2*/ AP: Work is going on,  check-in meeting at the end of Oct.

*Premis*/ KB: JK is fixing final spelling errors.

*Archival description*/ KB: JK is fixing final spelling errors. 

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: We got one Q this far, Q to JK if we have any guideline for IP-s.  

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: archival descriptions, we are endorsing other people profiles. 

SS: Work with AIP format is basically on hold, the plan is to pick that up in Jan. The main issue is that people are considering CSIP and not AIP as format, we need to discuss what should happen with the AIP format. 

JA comments that she finalized the annual report and send it to KB. 


Next meeting is on Oct 14th, the online room is open also for next week.  

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
