Minutes

- Members:

•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
•	Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
•	Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
•	Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
•	Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)First 
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
•	Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)

- Agenda: 

A2 Workplan and progress

- Text:

KB reports working with the overall workplan to make sure everything will be covered, that we are on track. Time is a big risk. 
 
Progress report of specs:
Overall admin/KB: KPI-s will be discussed tomorrow, monthly report for EC. CSIP and SIP have been updated. 

AIP/SS: Lacking feedback on what is needed. We are planning specific meetings with institutions, archives, business archives, etc, presenting what we have and if they would benefit from activities. JA will send slides, what is E-ARK, other building blocks, to get an overall picture by the beginning of March. They rather see EARK AIP as an exchange format. 

DIP/ABN: Not starting with DIP until March. 

Geodata/GZ: Effort has been inserted to the workplan, SIARD part still missing. Regarding the new specs – work with people of ODC to contribute to standards. (1) Standard context description for web services, not very widespread yet, but gives a possibility to add context to webservice as such. GZ has been invited to talk about it to DLM/Geo forum. (2) Contacted the person who helped to invent the GML. He knows the structure and helps to understand how to specifically use it for geo archiving. Still waiting for the reply regarding some standards for vectorgraphy.  

RM/KB: Doc is ready for GH format. The same info to GZ - there will be no word docs! We have found some minor updates in the value list, we will push schema for the next version.

SIARD/ABN: Continued planning, first to get to know what resources we have. 

E-Heatlh1/KB on behalf of SM: Have been evaluating Norwegian schema, minor things. Translation of the text is almost ready; they have a lot of meetings in Norway this week regarding the eHealth1 schema. 

E-Health2/AP: Meeting with the cancer registry yesterday, ready to fill the workplan, meetings were scheduled once a week.

Premis/KB: Not started yet, will be made in conjunction with Premis editorial committee and KEEPS.

Archival description/KB: Starting phase, going to rely on archives portal Europe.

Guidelines and procedures/KB with JK: starting phase, beginning with procedures then we will work with the guidelines after that. 

Endorsement and certification/KB: not started yet but planning. 
 
AP Q about timesheet. KB will be needing to know the time to make calculations. 

KB will get back to everyone when the overall workplan is ready. 

- Next meeting on Feb 26th, SIARD group will have the meeting time next Wed, Feb 19th. Recording will start automatically. 

- Notes by: Karin Oolu
