Minutes

Members:

•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
•	Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
•	Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)First 
•	Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
•	Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
•	Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
•	Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
•	Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia) 

Apologies: 

•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS) 
•	Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway 
•	Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)


Text:

Workplan is in GDrive, work with descriptions is still going on (OPF, webpage). The next A2 meeting is on Apr 29th, please let KB know if you need meeting time in Webex. All web tools are upgrading and creating restrictions on access to meetings. 

Progress report of specs:

Overall admin/ SOD for IP-s and the CITS is handed over to A1. Hope they have not too many comments. If we write one case, people want 25 cases, should be a simplified description on the implement. 

SIP, AIP, DIP are in maintenance mood, we’ve been in meeting with ETSI people regarding our AIP, SS is taking care of that. 

Geodata +GIS/ GZ had online meetings with people from the ODC, talked about a possible standard that could be used to GIS archiving. Got proposals, one of them will present the standard for geodata on Geoforum presentation in May. Also got replies from Polish colleagues who are reviewing specs – they take actions after the Easter holidays. For the maintenance: preparing presentation within A4, this is regarding the maintenance of the GIS spec part. Guidelines: 3rd deliverable for me. KB: Guidelines will go out for review in Month 10, don’t hold back, write as much as you can. 

RM/ KB: OPF is fully occupied. Asap possible we will talk 

SIARD/ ABN comments they are working with parts of the spec itself, also on the implementation directly into the actual cits out of the folder structure.  Also Use cases in there, to decide on how much we would expect people to have when it comes to the documentation of the database. so far going well. Rest of the April and may we have days to get busier, to have a decent proposal. Things are still looking fine. Let kb know as soon as any risk.  

E-Heatlh1/ SM reports not done a lot compared to the active work in March, but there will be days in April to focus and get the doc on good progress.  

E-Health 2/ postponed until we have better control. AP comments they had a meeting and maybe we could get more from the cancer registry.  Let KB know. 

Premis/ KB: textual check has been started, after that it is going handed on to Keeps, also it will be checked in cooperation with Premis Editorial Committee.   

Archival description/ KB: Handed on to Archival Portal Europe. You can use the profile that you are using actually, we are not creating a new profile for the archival description. 

Guidelines and procedures/ KB reports working on a lot of documents at the same time between KB and JK - archival description, Premis, RM. 

Endorsement and certification/ KB: similar to work with guidelines, the focus is to get the review ready and consider what we learned the last year. 

Next meeting on Apr 29th.

Notes by: Karin Oolu
