Minutes

- Members:

•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
•	Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
•	Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
•	Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
•	Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)First 
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
•	Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
•	Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)

Apologies: 
•	Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
•	Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia) 


- Text:

Overall workplan with dates has been sent via e-mail. 

- Progress report of specs:

Overall admin/ KB reports that SOD’s (Service Offering Descriptions) for IPs and for the CITS is almost ready, final checks by JK and JA still going on. We reduced the number to 2 as we can't make one SOD for each IP and CITS. Info will be circulated when ready. Different IPs are in maintenance mode.

AIP/ SS There will be a teleconference on Monday with Ulrike Korte (ETSI) and Kuldar Aas, presentation of E-ARK format and then look for possibilities for collaboration. 

Geodata +GIS/ GZ: CITS - no replies from mapping agencies. GIS – Skype meeting with the person of metadata for GIS products. Guidelines for geospatial – we are having the webinar with A4 at the end of this month, a lot of questions which they will help to find answers and help to contribute to the guidelines. 

RM/ KB: Doc is in waiting mood, a lot of things have been added. The numbering of different req-s hasn’t been done because when we do the transfer there will be lines added. 

SIARD/ ABN: still working on use cases and spec for SIARD and CSIP structure. 

E-Heatlh1/ SM is working, similar to SIARD work - how to place it to CSIP. 

E-Health 2/ Thanks to AP for the letter.

Premis/ KB started to gather all the info we have to different IPs, JK will look language and then it will be handed over to Luis at KEEPS. All the text we have about Premis and preservation metadata will be moved to Premis spec. 

Archival description/ JK and KB have looked on it and will hand it over to AIT. We are relying on the different archival format profiles from Archvies Portal Europe (APE) for the archival description. A lot of people have implemented those export formats. 

Guidelines and procedures/ Geodata mentioned above, KB and JK are working with 3 other procedures. 

Endorsement and certification/ Start ASAP, but the review process is the most important to us.

JA Q about coming review – Are we going to have a streamlined system with Digit? Better to be taking the knowledge from last time and trying even more streamlined process.  

- Next meeting on Apr 15th, KB will send e-mails if necessary.
RDB meeting will take over the Webex time. 

- Notes by: Karin Oolu
