EARK3 A2 meeting on 28th of Oct 2020

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)

Apologies: 
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Martin Speller (OPF)




## Text: 

Next meeting is on Nov 11th. 
Review is going on, all specs went out last Tuesday, there is a huge interest in looking at them. 
Next review period starts in Feb 2021, aimed towards the guidelines. Please start with the text, we have some feedback. First is covering them all, xml, schematron, xml schemas, principles from the CSIP or Premis, that’s all the part of the first guideline and we are spared doing that in others.

- Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ KB: Annual report has been handed on to JA and is on final stages. 7 specs are out to be reviewed and we have 7 procedure documents which mean we have done a lot of good work.

*IP-s*/ KB: All are in maintenance mood. 

*RM*/ Out on review. Starting with guidelines, need input from review. 

*Premis*/ Out on review.

*Archival description*/ Out on review.

*SIARD*/ PT gives information both CITS SIARD and SIARD user group on DILCIS page. We have put spec to GH, also published markdown version. It needs some more modifications and to create PDF from markdown for future publication. KB asks about the special task to write down what you have done, we need a short guideline. Usually, we transform it into GH format when we reach to validation. ABN adds that we have to wait for comments, Q is how people realize them, it takes time. Discussion about spreading the word out to the public, official channels, newsletters, Sydarkivera etc. 
LR comments that user group page is up, smth is also in GH, sent out to 17 people. KB helps with further advertising.  

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ: Weekly meetings with DNA, agreed on which elements to include to GIS CITS, being written in the template that’s more alike SIARd spec. Also talked about GEO CITS, getting reviews in real-time from DNA, what to change and working on that. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ Hoping to get some feedback from NAN as spec is based around what they are doing currently. Follow on A3, and also looking for practical instances, valuable real-world feedback.  

PT proposes to write the type of specification acronym first so CITS is always first then the rest of the name! CITS SIARD, CITS GEO etc, otherwise we get confused. 

*E-Health 2*/ AP comments they have started weekly meetings, even several in a week. Included Boris and Tina as database specialists.  

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB comments starting with that, have to finish by the end of the year. There are (1) Endorsement for other specs – how they do it, what they need, etc. (2) Certification - Q if we should certify our specs, need to look options there. If we aim high, go for ISO, for example, nothing is going to be free easily! We have some work to do here with JK, starting this as well.  

JA comments everything looking good, good work! 

Next meeting is on Nov 11th.

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
