EARK3 A2 meeting on 2nd of Sep 2020

# Minutes

## Members:

•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
•	Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
•	Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
•	Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
•	Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Martin Speller (OPF)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)

Apologies: 
•	Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
•	Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
•	David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS) 
•	Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
•	Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)



## Text: 

There is a new document “Open review info texts” in Drive (folder A2 – Review materials) to be filled in by the people who are responsible for spec. Important: the correct title, short abstract and if there are special questions. In the beginning, links for the surveys can be found. (https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1Q4HW_pAfXfMS5qsHGQVYUZuT3zH7qRHu)
We have to think about how we want to people act giving comments. 

For internal comments, 1st of Sept was the date. If missing that you need to agree if and when they give comments. ABN adds that many of the comments should go to public comments. MF proposes to have internal comments in GH. But unfortunately, we don’t have all specs in GH and now it is important is to get docs ready for the review. KB can try to do some statistics about comments. 



-	Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ KB: The first review batch is released.

*IP-s*/ KB: All are in maintenance mood. Reminder to SS to look at the whitepaper (DILCIS board). SS- OK! 

*SIARD*/ ABN: Received a lot of comments, still waiting for some (AL), plenty of work ahead. AL will receive some assistance. PT is incorporating review remarks, still missing mail from AKG regarding documentation requirements. Q about the profile: Do we have one profile for each package METS and representation METS or both METS files? KB there will be two METS profiles, otherwise, you might end up with 2 requirements for the same thing. AK confirmes he will answer ASAP. PT is not sure what to do with Schematron doc? KB that’s not to be ready by review, we have time. PT adds to all that if you have time, we have time for extra comments! 

Deadline for English wording is as soon as you are ready. ABN proposes to handle that in 2 rounds. AS we have to avoid working with the same version KB will send an e-mail if JK and JA can start checking language. 

Use cases: AKG has been working hard with that. MM comments in chat: We are working with study to have it in finalized in the next two weeks. Next week is internal comment and second is should be ready.  There is one part (so-called CaseStudy 2) which handles LOB-files, that is also in good progress and we'll have that also in next weeks. CS1 is more general about workflow and that is a much bigger doc. about using SIARD.

User groups: ABN comments not done much, because focusing on specs. What do we have to have ready by some concrete date? KB explains that by the end of the project, we could to that after Nov 1st. LR has done an excellent job. Decided: We are focusing on getting CITS SIARD ready now and we’ll have a meeting with PT and LR to decide what to do next. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ had a meeting with MS before vacation about taking a different approach with GIS CITS. Not ready by this month. A meeting on Sep 15th to see the progress. Geospatial CITS - couple of comments, if anyone can comment package structure would be appreciated! I granted access to AK, PT will also look. 

*RM*/ KB: the draft is in Drive.

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM: The draft is in Drive, we have 1 review from PT. Work on with the doc and anyone else is welcome to comment! 

*E-Health 2*/ KB comments that the team is working with cancer registry. 

*Premis*/ KB: Ongoing work, the doc is in Drive 

*Archival description*/ KB: The draft is in Drive. We are not creating a new profile for any other archival standards. 

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: Doc is out for the review, also sent to Fulgencio and co. 

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: We can start with it ASAP. 

Next time we will use Zoom, there will be a new booking for your calendars. If someone wants to use next week Webex slot, please let KB know. 
KB will send an e-mail to JK and JA which docs are ready to start eng review. 

Next meeting is on Sep 16th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
 
