Minutes

Members:

•	Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
•	Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
•	Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
•	Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
•	Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
•	David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
•	Karin Oolu DLM (Easylean OÜ)
•	Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
•	Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
•	Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
•	Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
•	Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
•	Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
•	Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)

Text:

•	A2 Workplan has been available in GDrive, no comments this far. We should be ready to give a lot of things for the review by M12. At the moment we are in M3, which means we have 9 intensive months ahead. KB can’t take part in all the work, there will be smaller working groups.  

•	MF Q-s (1) what is exactly expected from each partner, by M6. It can’t be said by KB who’s going to do what. For old specs we already have workgroups, they are in maintenance now. And there are leaders for new working groups. (2) There is an open milestone in GH because of 5-6 issues open, what to do with them? KB will look at what’s in it. 

•	JS reporting they are starting with formal procedures of engagement of sub-contractor, but it’s too optimistic to have the plan ready by the end of January. Please be aware of M12! 

•	MF is clearing the amount of effort assigned, will check the numbers for the work ahead with ERMS group and will get back with it. 

•	ABN points out the distribution of the tasks. DIP is easier than new ones. Old ones should be finished by M22, the new ones by M12, to be reviewed. 

•	GZ Q about the most extensive description of deliverables. Grant Agreement (GA) + what we agree in smaller groups. Also, we have the doc which was prepared for the bid. Text of GA is in Drive under A1: (https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1uXjVBEry7qyY23DXev5w1LCpQNNNAUvW), page 13. E.g for GIS case, how is this content information type going to be possible to put into IP and transferred from one place to another. 

•	Gold star to KB as she is the only wp lead who has done the plan! 

•	We will continue the planning next meeting, by then KB will have a better overview of A2 and A3 dependencies. Everyone start planning when you are going to do the work in smaller groups. E.g, we need to look for different standards, for geodata, can be started now. We don’t have the template for the different content type specs yet, but can be started with the text. The first start from reading, adding the names to the tasks, we need to know who is going to be involved from each organization. KB will check the issues in GB.

•	ABN comments that after we look sub-activities etc, we need to look at the budget again. GZ gives an example that he doesn’t see any archives in the tasks to help with actual demand. But that should be accounted for. DA comments that originally it was agreed with the lower cost recovery, some have 75%, some 100% of normal costs. Figures showed fewer months that we are going to work actually, enough budget was not allocated. KB will update the work plan according to these calculations and will let everyone know. The basic unit is an hour, not days. 

•	KO continues notetaking and all notes will be in GH. Webex connection time is booked for Weds. Please don’t go to drive until KB has done updates. 

Next meeting: Jan 15th, 2020
Notes by: Karin Oolu
