EARK3 A2 meeting on 2nd of Dec 2020

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)

Apologies: 
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)



## Text: 

The last meeting this year is on Dec 9th, the 1st of a new year on Jan 13th. Rest of the WED-s are free to use for workgroups. 

Dec 16th is the date for annual review.

Reviews: Group II ends on Dec 17th, group III starts in Feb. 

JK and KB have gone through replies, the summary from the group I is diverse. We have stated 2 y for a review cycle, KB proposes 5 y for a mayor revision period, we can do minor revisions. The guideline for everything is a tricky one. The only hint is to look comments, KB can’t give any clear direction on what to do. E.g, some wanted no acronyms, but how to avoid them? DA adds that acronyms are always a problem. SM comments that produce smth, use practical software spec., talk to actual people who could be using it and focusing on the assumption about the audience. 

- Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ KB: Annual review is on Dec 16th. The form is not ready yet. 

*IP-s*/ KB: All are in maintenance mood. 

*SIARD*/ KB: Work is going on with user group. CITS for SIARD, RFC are on review.  

*Geodata +GIS*/ KB: Work is going on. Meetings once a week, moving forward. Geospatial out on review. 

*RM*/ KB: Same status, guidelines on starting point.

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM: Have been working with A3 software spec, upcoming discussions with NRG. 

*E-Health 2*/ KB: Due to vaccine going slow for a while, but check-ins every 2nd week.  

*Premis*/ KB: Out on review. 

*Archival description*/ KB: Closest what we have to endorsements, writing a summary.

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: The first draft ready before Christmas, milestones check-in point is in Dec, endorsement should be able to test but what we are already testing, cert will be handed over by the DILCIS board. 



Next meeting is on Dec 9th.

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
