EARK3 A2 meeting on 14th of Oct 2020

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)

Apologies: 
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Martin Speller (OPF)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)




## Text: 

Next meeting is on Oct 28th. 


- Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ JK and KB have been working with review material, links, layout, fonts, use of CSIP, METS profiles, making 1st pages. Fingers crossed we have it out by next week to send out to various lists. 

KB has started with an annual report. Every month we have to report to the operational management port, we are advised to copy what we have written in reports. It will be put up in Drive asap, needs to be finished by Oct 30th. 

*IP-s*/ KB: All are in maintenance mood. 

*SIARD*/ Going out to review. Q to VMO or LR – you have made the form for SIARD user group, should we spread it out to the wider audience or just inside the project? LR explains the list consists of 16 names, would be nice if more participants. If someone spreads the link I am not against it, but personally would like to make GH more ready. KB proposes to spread it in Jan 2021 when all comments are back, lets have it as a plan for spring.  

*RM*/ Going out to review.

*E-Heatlh1*/ Going out to review.

*E-Health 2*/ AP: Work is going on, check-in meeting at the end of Oct.

*Premis*/ Going out to review.

*Archival description*/ Going out to review.

*Guidelines and procedures*/ Going out to review. We got one comment this far. Q to JK if we have any guideline for IP-s.  

*Endorsement and certification*/ ASAP we have these reviews out we can dig into the endorsement and certification milestone. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ:

GIS spec: had a meeting with a new team, changing the approach to fit the actual needs with the archive. Next meeting next Wed, will present a new structure, so the archives would be able to use it and validate it later. 

GEO CITS: ABN have given comments on how to change the structure of GEO CITS, the draft is already out to review. We can add missing elements and structure the folders in the METS profile later. JA adds we are putting the Moscow staff as ABN pointed out we are missing them, also getting all the comments for the text. It was a good meeting with people who use the specs., useful comments, better progress now. GZ will prepare a new structure which elements will be added to the new document and then take KBs proposal with CS, also add the Moscow elements and METS elements to the final document. 
Geodata can be family spec. GZ adds ABN comment that we should decide one standard for each type of geodata, not proposing many. If we don’t constrict them to one specific standard then we can have chief interoperability within European archives. 

Next meeting is on Oct 28th, the online room is open also for  21st of OCT.  
Geodata meets next week at 11 AM, A2 meeting time is available. 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
