EARK3 A2 meeting on 7th of Apr 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

Apologies: 
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

A2 Team Zoom time next week: No bookings for Apr 14th. 

Reviews: Group 3 guidelines are out, ending on May 16th. e-Health1, e-Health2 and Geo reviews will open on May 3rd, closing by July 18th.  
DILCIS Board: Work with AIP is ongoing. CITS vocabulary, M2.5 – DILCIS Board needs more time, no decision so far but it will come.  

- Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ KB: No news. Work with the finances is ongoing, it's in DA hands.  

*IP-s*/ KB: CSIP - validation team create a full set of comments (A3.3), and that will be brought back to DILCIS Board and CSIP team that we have. 

All IPs – when we do splitting, parting, making it possible to have a smaller package over a huge package – all that will affect other IPs, but let's take that when it comes. 

AIP – SS reports on some progress, we will have telco on Thu to discuss in detail. Challenge is to make sure that we do not have loose ends in Oct.  Lot of more pressure, meaning that AIP spec adaption, implementation and white paper - all need to be a bit in parallel to fit together at the end. We have another meeting this week regarding the request we got and this is also bringing some ideas. Its Belgium organization with concrete ideas. We can check our ideas against what they are proposing. 
                                                                                                                 
*SIARD*/PT comments they are preparing for the conference next week. Then, with ABN, SIARD RFC  will be closed next week or the week after.  
MM: Use cases and case studies are under construction. 
KB will create a profile for PT, it's on the agenda. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ: CITS for Geospatial spec was delivered on Mar 31st. Now minor work with guidelines for Geospatial. Then continue guidelines for GIS. 

*RM*/ KB: No change. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM reports some progress, updated the CITS based on additional feedback from Kuldar, related to software development,  changes in guidelines with anticipation. Next is to finalise the software spec in A3. Also, METS profile needs to be checked.   

*E-Health 2*/ KB comments from an earlier meeting with AP, that today afternoon Slovenian Cancer Registry will give the last comments, then we can send it to pre-review and also to Norwegian Cancer Registry. So we’ll get comments before we send it out to the review. 

*Premis*/ KB: No changes. 

*Archival description*/ KB: No news.

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: editing work going on with procedures. Will be uploaded to Drive ASAP. 
	
*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: Endorsement needs to be tested. If anyone knows someone, please let KB know. Certification: Info from yesterday’s meeting that work is going on. DILCIS Board is not yet ready to answer. 

AOB? – No.

The next meeting is on Apr 21st 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
