EARK3 A2 meeting on 6th of Oct 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)

Apologies: 
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

Next week there will be the DLM Forum meeting in Tallinn, including DILCIS Board with A2 invited guests meeting. Invitations were sent, please accept booking even if you will join online.  
Next bookings for A2 will be cancelled due to conferences next two times. 
On Oct 26th 3pm specs event – all information is in the folder in Drive, more info will come there. All speakers are clear and no problems there. JA comments that Adeline didn’t know who is going to do introduction. Wrap up is really short – 35 min, max 1 slide.


- Progress report:

*Overall admin*/ KB is working with year 2 report. JA confirms it doesn’t have a milestone. We didn’t have review in 18 months, only had individual activity reports. It’s easier for us to go back and update the documents, but it makes it hard to name the documents. ERMS report will be 1.2, A2. 

*IP-s*/ KB and CW working mostly with language checking, enchantments needed for CSIP – latest must be ready by Oct 15th.

SIP: MF have some issues left, will be ready by the end of the next week.
 
AIP, SS: CW did the review for the new version which is in line with the white paper. Nested structure is removed and extended, only these issues are up which we have to discuss. 

DIP: KB will send Q to ABN.
 
*SIARD*/ The first e-mail to user group list has been sent. There is a database preservation workshop in Germany these days, that’s why some people are missing today’s meeting.
 
*e-Health 2*/ AP is updating the GL, got lot of comments from Cancer Registry, integrating these to GL. Also integrated comments to e-Health spec. Will be finished by couple of weeks. AP has overwritten marked changes, KB asks to make sure to have it in separate copy. DA suggest to use Word compare documents feature. 

*Premis and the rest of the documents*/ – everything is published, besides the level document. 

Today is almost the last meeting of A2. Big thanks to KB for almost two years of successful A2 meetings and A2 work!!!


## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
