EARK3 A2 meeting on 11th of Aug 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
 • Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

Apologies: 
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

The next A2 meeting is on Aug 25th.

KB and JK are working with preparations for publications (in total 50 documents): minor textual edits, enhancing language flow, comparing METS profile with specs, also incorporating the CSIP for values,  creating front pages (publication format will be PDF), GH repositories, the structure for GH will be done, docs will be uploaded, updating webpage reviews texts – a lot of work ongoing.

DILCIS Board: Ongoing work with AIP White paper (vocabularies of CITS will be incorporated, M2.4 and M2.5 are ready and KB is looking them through. Validation levels that have been circulated, will be implemented after the publications.


- Progress report of specs:

Overall admin: Work with publications is ongoing. 

*IP-s*/ KB: Work will start after publications. 
                                                                                                               
*SIARD*/ KB Qs to PT: 1)SIARD document versions. It should be 2.2.0, but PT will check that out ASAP with ABN. 2)METS metadata XSD for SIARD has a version in the name, should it have that? Not in the file name, but comment on the top of the schema. 3)Updates of case studies. MM was responsible for case studies. He is on vacation, but probably no changes. 

PT informs about a very fruitful collaboration with CW with CITS SIARD spec validability assessment document. CW adds that the assessment methodology was fine, but we have to be clear with the scope of metadata in the guidelines. It refers to the main level metadata, not the package level metadata.  Q by CW about 4-star criteria for structure.  Conclusions are written by CW to M3.2 metadata and M3.4 for content data documents. Overall, we really might need to think about the structure, how we use the assessment document and what we are looking for metadata. This will be handed on to JA, we’ll wait until MF is back from vacation. It won’t take long and will get back at the end of August. KB adds we need to remember that in METS profile that mirrors the spec, the plan is that the METS profile creates the tables, not the tables are created from.  KB will work further and CW will let know, which ver of SIARD CITS will be the published one. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ reports about finalizing specs and sent them by the deadline. Now waiting if everything is correct. KB is making sure the METS profiles in the docs are the same, so we don’t have any differences between them. In the end, the METS profiles will be put into the specs instead of the tables. GZ adds that they have put most of the Musts to Should’s, but only in local implementations. 

*RM*/ KB: The same process with METS profile, having an xml schema.  

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM dropped out from the call. 

*E-Health 2*/ KB report about the same edits implemented.     

*Premis*/ KB report about the same edits implemented.      

*Archival description*/ KB report about the same edits implemented.   

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB report these docs are as ready as they can be.     
                                                                              
*Endorsement and certification*/ KB report these docs are as ready as they can be.     

AL, LA and LR will have an additional meeting after closing with PT to discuss the numbering of the SIARD-specification. 

The next meeting is on Aug 25th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
