EARK3 A2 meeting on 5th of May 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

Apologies: 
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

After this meeting a short check-up of the website of e-Archiving Building Block will take place, no recording or notes needed (JA, KB).

Reviews: Guidelines ending on May 16th. Group 4 documents (e-Health2 and AIP White Paper) are out to review since May 3rd and info sent out on May 4th. Thanks for that work!

DILCIS Board: Vocabulary for different CITS, you have been informed in regards to that.  M2.5 meeting will be held on 12th of May.

- Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ KB: Please fill in the finances ASAP. We entered to 3rd period on May 1st. 

*IP-s*/ KB: Still in maintenance mood, it will take a couple of weeks until any indications. MF Q about issues with SIP, wondering how should we tackle it as we are not reviewing SIP at the moment. KB: Issues are coming from the validation team. No need to rush, you can reply but no need to do modifications. Towards the end of the project we’ll look it through, we need to figure out how big things there are. We can do updates in ver 2, once a year and that needs to be published in the last month of the project. If we do changes in IP-s, it affects CITS.  MF will add a note next to the issues.
                                                                                                                
*SIARD*/ ABN: SIARD RFC 2.2 still working with the last parts. Based on what we presented at the webinar. CITS for SIARD adapt and changed a few things. A user group is a bit hanging. The actual main-list is done, but we still need to describe what we expect from people. Very few hours assigned to that task, but huge interest towards it in the longer term. So far the plan is to make sure to get out SIARD RFC and CITS for SIARD adapted, also working on with User Group. Things are good, hope to make it by the end of May, which has a lot of holidays. 
KB asks about e-mail to the user group. Yes. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ: KB reports she has got drafts of both, GEO and GIS. It will take some time and finish comments as it’s a draft. It includes some open comments which KB waits to be solved by GZ until start to go on with checking on it. 

*RM*/ KB: No change. Q to MF: DPC want to have the link of the survey inserted into the presentation, will the link be the same? Yes, it’s under password, I plan to go live by the end of this week. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM has been doing alternative actions to manage risks finding a programmer, start work in near days. Also been translating software tools specs into an agile project and creating user stories. Got some Q-s to KB, schedule some time, SM will send an e-mail to KB. 

*E-Health 2*/ KB reports both guideline and spec has been sent out to review.   

*Premis*/ KB: No changes. 

*Archival description*/ KB: No changes.

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: procedures are going through minor updates. Plan for publication by the end of the project, so it means no problem now. 
	
*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: M2.3 next meeting on May 12th with DILCIS board. 


The next meeting is on May 19th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
