EARK3 A2 meeting on 2nd of June 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

Apologies: 
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

The next booking for A2 is on June 16th, the last meeting before the summer holidays. 
Reviews: group 3 has ended, summary have been sent around. Group 4 has been released, so far no replies, ending on July 18th. Group 5 will be sent out asap but will have a really short period, to be published in M22. 
DILCIS Board: AIP White Paper, work with CITS vocabulary, M2.5 certification process – last meeting on May 12th, ready and they are waiting for publication. We are not creating smth new but profiles to be able to use standards that are around. 
Validation – small work-group for that will give a first report on the next A2 meeting. 

- Progress report of specs:

*IP-s*/ KB: Still in maintenance mood, there will be some changes by the validation team.  
                                                                                                                
*SIARD*/ ABN: SIARD spec is a little late, but will be done before vacations. Finally, we’ve looked at alternatives to go on with the part to get users activated. Further, discussions about the actual use of the combinations of SIARD spec with smth else, geodata etc, will take place. 
CITS for SIARD, PT: guidelines need to finish up before summer vacations. AKG will have some free time and can give input. Thanks! 
KB adds that the user group and email list is moving forward slowly, finalization with the contract with Antonio is ongoing. 
PT reports they had over 100 attendees who listened to the presentations of CITS SIARD and SIARD spec 2 weeks ago on eArhiving presentation, and it will be published online.
ABN – asap we have finished SIARD2.2 and move on with the next ver of SIARD, lots of ideas and plans what to do. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ At the conference, KB and JK are working with these documents and getting ready for public review. 

*RM*/ KB: No change. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM reports they have been working hard with the software side. A lot of responses from Sydarkivera, useful. As working with the METS production SM has Q about the timing for the process of getting vocabularies for DILCIS. KB: It’s her summer vacation, but we are looking for some examples for SM. 

*E-Health 2*/ KB out on review.   

*Premis*/ KB: No changes. 

*Archival description*/ KB: No changes.

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: work ongoing with the guidelines, also KB working with that. 
	
*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: Endorsement: has been sent out to be tested; Cert: DILCIS board has to reach the decision to hand it over on M22.  

All specs on stable mode are available at the GDrive, together with comments on what's planned to do further. 

SM Q about A3 meeting coming around. Discussion about sorting that out. 

The next meeting is on June 16th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
