EARK3 A2 meeting on 10th of Mar 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

Apologies: 
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

A2 Team Zoom time (an opportunity for the teams to use an already booked time with a Zoom connection to discuss):

March 17th - the SIARD and CITS SIARD team

March 31st - for discussing humongous IP’s. SS will be leading this meeting and will also invite people from A3 to participate.

Reviews of group 2 documents - Summary has been distributed. Only informal information, we won’t get feedback.

Guidelines of group 3 documents (e-Health 1, RM, SIARD) - Out on review. No questions so far, the deadline is May 16th.

Dilcis Board handling documents and decisions over A2: (1) AIP whitepaper, thanks to SS for sending and preparing it, the answer will be ready by the end of this week. (2) Vocabulary for CITS, the top level of our packages and also for the representations. The Q to be discussed is how we add values to that list. The decision will be done on Easter, so people would have time to think about it. (3) Milestone 2.5 of possible certification of specs. 
Decisions will be circulated once ready to all. 


- Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ KB: Financial survey, please reply. Changes need to be confirmed with KB.

*IP-s*/ KB: In maintenance mood.

Information regarding AIP has been sent to SS. 

ABN Q about IP specs: We need discussion regarding scalability, what to do in cases when receiving TB of data. SS informs that’s exactly the shift that we want to do in the AIP spec. We need to think about the packaging, how are physical packages being developed. We need to look more than just at logical AIP, but also at the physical AIPs. This is also dealing with AIP viewer, which we are doing in A3. Having conversations with CW to look into scalability, how to enable splitting of AIPs. We need decisions on how to package containers, going beyond just how do we logically organize the package, but how do we implement the packaging? This is towards enabling interoperability. 

MF adds info about an experimental project going on, where we are building SIPs that don’t hold the data within the SIP. Our E-ARK SIP structure, but instead of pointing to the relative path of the files within the represent folder, we just point to the files that live outside the package, e. g original data store. Could this somehow help in this discussion? SS explains that this touches the principles of archiving, for the LT archiving it should be in terms of “I found a disk somewhere and what’s on it”. References for the live system it’s ok, it's efficient, but for LT archiving perspective it’s a risk. Would be useful if you are able with this implementation to specify a way of exporting encapsulated form of the package, so you have this implementation but at the same time you are easily able to export the encapsulated packages. 

KB explains to MS that splitting we need to incorporate to CSIP originates from the work done with SIARD. At that time, when we wrote the GA, we didn’t know the changes in AIP. It does need an update in CSIP in the section of splitting and we need to publish it before the end of this project, in Oct 2021. SS adds that it also concerns A3, implementation of spec should go hand in hand. We need examples. KB asks MF to show what’s been done in this experimental project and discuss this topic in the breakout group on Mar 31. SS would lead the discussion. 

PT explains to MF we created CITS SIARD spec, which has been out on review in group 2. Now there is CITS SIARD mainly dealing with how to package SIARD file, not going into SIARD spec itself. The tricky thing is that we call it CITS SIARD, but we renamed it CITS for Relational Databases using SIARD. Different from the standard SIARD. 
                                                                                                                     
*SIARD*/ABN: Currently working with the last parts of issues regarding handling large databases. Keen on things like having the manifest file in a simple format as an option, etc. Hope we will manage by the end of March, looks promising.  PT: CITS for SIARD RFC – Just to make sure where we are going to handle the mapping files and segmentation problems, whether they go into CITS SIARD or in SIARD. When finished then will be tackling the action points just as ABN has done for SIARD RFC. Formatting CITS SIARD spec will not happen during this part of the project because things that have to be validated should be in the same format and it's not possible then and takes a lot of time. But KB will do METS profiles for PT. 

ABN: User-group  - The reason why we are not answering all mails is that we are too busy at the moment. Kuldar has been in helping, LR and others, people are interested, that’s promising. We are a little bit after schedule, we’ll need some help and talk about it in the next meeting with the user-group. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ working intensely with geodata, the greatest question was vocabulary issue for the METS. There are 2 levels: one is the type element and the other is the content inf type element. Is there a possibility for the third level like for type other? We might have subtype vector data and subtype of raster data that is different, similar to cits for SIARD spec.  KB explains we are not using “other” unless you have put the value being other, the condition is that it’s being tested in validation. One of the proposals regarding the CITS is just we might need to have one for each CITS.  We need to discuss the solution on the DILCIS board and therefore KB can’t answer now. Work can be started but will be finished later (its only 4 letters). Regarding other progress – GZ is currently finalizing CITS for geodata spec, working with guidelines for the elements that are defined, work is going according to the plan. Still have 3 weeks to finish. 

*RM*/ KB: no difference.   

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM reports of minor updates based on the feedback. Major actual feedback was to software development activity (May) and have been writing spec for that. There we’ve found issues ourselves. KB adds that the vocabulary issue will affect SM too, but just one value. 

*E-Health 2*/ AP reports they have added some text: described folders to the SIPs structure, described the data object. Put some text where the text was missing, also preparing minireview by the end of March. Then we’ll see what and if will be written in the spec. 

*Premis*/ KB: There were even fewer changes than in RM one. One comment has misunderstood the use of the archival system, finding aid system and preservation system. That will be handled through guidelines. 

*Archival description*/ KB: We don’t have to justify the spec we make, no need to tell why we do it. Might be part of the guidelines, but no need to put it to the spec. 

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: Some guidelines are out for review. Procedures: vocabulary issue will end up in the procedure for creation, we need to state that this value is created by us. 

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: Endorsement is ready, and we can handle it by testing it. Certification: DILCIS board will have a meeting at the beginning of Apr, M2.5

Next meeting is on Mar 24th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu

