EARK3 A2 meeting on 10th of Feb 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

Apologies: 
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

Geo-team books the meeting time for the next week, Feb 17th.

Reviews – the summary is ready, JK checking language. It will be handed on to OMB and copy to everyone. (Total comments to 6 specs and 1 standard). Comments are given from different angles, correct people who have commented, but would be nice to have more comments. Generally good. 

KB and JK are finishing up e-Halth1, RM,  SIARD guidelines out for review, hopefully within this or next week. That will give us more hints of what people want from guidelines.   

- Progress report of specs:

KB introduces the A2 work plan for M13-M24 and explains in detailed all the tasks. In Drive: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15DYPeJd1zzRwrat__CXlK9tC0uaNN5FZ40s9Lt_6dRY/edit?usp=sharing (please do not change it!)

CSIP – validation work gives a lot of comments which will be handled closer to the end of the project.
AIP – ongoing work with White Paper.
SIARD, e-Health1, e-Health2, Premis – updates of spec after review comments, updates of METS profile, GH formats were discussed. Archival info – didn’t get comments at all.
Guidelines – CSIP updates are needed, people who responded would happily aid with creating, how to make it possible for them to contribute. 
No questions, comments.  
A little less work but still a lot of work needed to be done. Putting things out on review means a lot of work. 

*IP-s*/ ongoing. 

*SS update of the AIP White Paper.

Working with CW on that. The idea was to change the AIP, because so far it has not much interest. The idea is that AIP format will help metadata that is AIP specific, which allows capturing the history of the package, so you can capture the provenance appropriate to AIP, completely inline with CSIP. In other words, creating metadata extension keeping the history of the packages. The advantage would be that if you have that already implemented and then consider a lightweight format to catch the history and create a series of packages, then how to capture the provenance. MF stresses out that anyone who wants to be compatible with us, they don’t have to implement AIP, but only need to take out the data in that format. SS explains that they also discuss what forms of support of the AIP format can we have. There can be native support, but also not to block the way of exporting the standard AIP which is also fine and not expensive. Thinking about the way of allowing different approaches. 

JA Q about the idea of trust extension of AIP. SS comments trust can be one module, not everybody has to do that. We have to solve how to collaborate with ETSI and not making the E-ARK AIP optional. ABN adds an example of SIPs and AIPs in Denmark where they have about 2000  organisations who produce SIPs, but only 50 who produces AIPs. SS explains that for a long term every organization has to do the system migration and the vision is to make it cheaper. AIP should consider optional metadata. E-ARK or DILCIS Board can give a recommendation, e.g if you want to keep the provenance of AIP we recommend to do it that way, with the metadata formats we have and relationships between packages. For AIP it’s very important to have a standard way of documenting relationships between packages (incl other types of relationships, not only parent-child), we can give a lightweight recommendation on how to do that.

The timeline of further work should be discussed offline. We can target a conference, iPres would be an option, a hybrid conference in China. SS and CW will give an outline and it is open to other people to contribute. KB adds that the next step is DILCIS Board, because it’s the total change of AIP.  
                                                                                                                         
*SIARD*/ABN: Has been working with summary, next week we’ll be able to make considerations on what to change in the current draft of SIARD. In parallel changes CITS for SIARD. Depends on how many and how deep comments regarding SIARD spec. The main issue is where we should put the level regarding scalability, need further discussion on that, but let's see, also some oral comments.  Work is also ongoing on how to handle people in the user group, a lot of things going on. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ after we finished the review summary, we also purchased the standard to do the changes. Also, restructuring CITS for geospatial with colleagues from DNA, preparing meeting next week regarding plans ahead and if we are moving in the right directions. Continue with the weekly meeting every THU. 

*RM*/ KB: All comments were regarding understanding descriptions, nothing serious in the schema.  

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM comments that guideline was submitted last week. There are comments to look at but not too much. KB asks to let her know in anything need to do with the profiles.  

*E-Health 2*/ AP reports that they are utilizing the new information package schema. Finally defined the content of all the folders in the package, describing them, have been working with METS schema for a couple of weeks, elaborating the content of the IP. 

*Premis*/ KB: Comments were not at all on how we used Premis. Most are questions like is this implemented in all the systems, or how do I use this to find my things in the archive. We need to add some text to the guideline.

*Archival description*/ KB: No comments at all. KB will do minor text edit. It means it was a really good job.  

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: some are going out ASAP. What to get in the guidelines is hard, it depends on the subject, the main focus only parts we are working with, not all the digital preservation. 

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: Endorsement if possible test. Certifications – DILCIS Board meeting was yesterday and some more work will be carried out regarding that one.

Next meeting is on Feb 24th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
