EARK3 A2 meeting on 21th of Apr 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

Apologies: 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

A2 Team Zoom time next week: available

Reviews: Group 3 guidelines are out on review, ending on May 16th. e-Health2 and hopefully some Geo will open on May 3rd, also AIP White paper being part of that batch of docs.   

DILCIS Board: AIP white paper, we’ll have a meeting regarding the vocabularies for CITS and set up the procedure on how to add values to that one. M2.5 is ongoing.


- Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ KB: New acronym, but it doesn’t affect what we are doing.  

*IP-s*/ KB: No change this far. 

AIP White paper: work is ongoing. SS comments it’s the final, we are doing internal distribution in a smaller circle to get a first-round of comments and then distribution to everybody. KB will send an e-mail regarding the questions for the survey about collecting public comments. 
                                                                                                                 
*SIARD*/ ABN: SIARD - discussing final things like segmentation, the optional manifest file, optional mapping file, what to keep in the actual spec or what in the appendix, what should be mandatory, actual recommendations as such without breaking the compatibility with the previous version. Next, we have to look at CITS for SIARD, hopefully, together with PT as earlier, we’ve been working in parallel handling the deadlines. No outstanding issues, just finishing.

PT: CITS SIARD – preparing presentation of CITS SIARD along with rest of the topics related to relational DB archiving on 29th of Apr. After this, we’ll join forces with ABN and continue CITS SIARD and SIARD RFC. Also have been working with validation, Q about if we have multiple profiles. KB: one profile referenced in the METS doc. But METS itself can be an extension of how many profiles you want. You’ll create these profiles hierarchies in the profiles, not in the METS document. For SIARD we have to use the attribute: The package type. 

User group: Ongoing work with e-mail list. JA confirms that we haven’t replied to that and will send a follow-up. 

ABN adds we still have work to do with the actual user group. PT reports about meeting with colleagues who have written guideline for cits CITS SIARD, should we put it to the official channel. KB: Yes, we need statistics. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ: Guidelines finished and put to internal review on Mon. Q regarding METS - AKG will send KB an e-mail. Some of the issues are caused as we took SIARD spec as a template. Now working with GIS guideline, it will not have so many elements as the geo guideline was. Regarding sent comments by KB, some replies will be sent today from AKG, PT and ABN. KB Q any plans when you are ready? We are not going to have more review periods! GZ Spec and GL for GEO – by the end of next week, GL for GIS will take more time. 
ABN adds that AKG and colleague Matthew will support as much as possible. 

*RM*/ KB: No change. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM waiting for May and programmer. Updating the CITS. 

*E-Health 2*/ AP: we have to draft a guideline to be sent out on May 13th, and figure out if we have any comments from our mini-review. Waiting for comments from the cancer registry.   

*Premis*/ KB: No changes. 

*Archival description*/ KB: No changes.

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: guidelines out on review, procedures will be published at the end of the project. 
	
*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: Testable, not supposed to be published either at the end of the project. Certification: M2.3 next meeting on May 12th with DILCIS board. 

JA comments that the workshop went very well yesterday.  We have also met the new project officer. Q is would it be ok if meet him next week and introduce ourselves? ABN agrees KB proposes to limit it to all staff.  

The next meeting is on May 5th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
