EARK3 A2 meeting on 24th of Mar 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

Apologies: 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

A2 Team Zoom time next week Mar 31st (an opportunity for the teams to use an already booked time with a Zoom connection to discuss): lead by SS and cover splitting, AIP and thingy thingies. SS will invite people who are not in A2, the link will be sent by KB. 

Review: Still going on, ending on the 16th of May

DILCIS Board: Still some decisions to make. 

- Progress report of specs:

*Overall admin*/ KB: Survey period for finances has ended, DA will start discussions with activity leads. 

*IP-s*/ KB: In maintenance mood. There are comments on the CSIP. Answers have to wait, none of them changes anything but there are more explanations needed. E.g vocabularies are not tied to file names,  content is the important part. 
                                                                                                                 
*SIARD*/ABN: Finishing the last details, weekly meetings ongoing. Trying to make a compromise on where to place the LOBs, there are different ways of doing it. We hope to be able to agree upon it before Easter. 
SIARD RFC: Modified some things according to some responses, still bit work ahead about a few details. 
CITS for SIARD: PT is working. It's depending on the work that comes from RFC.
User groups: Responding to the user group is the only thing we are behind the schedule. We have to set up how we are responding to user groups in future. KB adds that work with e-mail list is ongoing. In these responses, it's important that AL would be SFA representative. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ: Final week of working with deliverables for specs and guidelines. Currently evaluating and reviewing CITS for Geospatial spec, and at the same time writing guidelines for it and GIS. It’s fluid work, as we changed the spec so the chapters in guidelines also changed a bit. We are working hard, but we still have one week left and will let KB know when it's done.   

*RM*/ KB: No change, comments have been handled, mostly editorial edits. MF and KB got the request for a presentation of RM. KB can present the spec but it's before DPC. 
MF has Q to JA about the interest towards RM, please ask CW. Three major institutions are working on RM like DPC, OPF and ourselves. Maybe joining hands in future. We were the first ones. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM: only A3 news, there will be a webinar tomorrow. 

*E-Health 2*/ AP: Nothing new to report, well finish spec on Friday, then send to JK and KB for proofreading. The cancer registry has sent some explanations of some terms, we’ll send specs to them too for review. 

*Premis*/ KB: No news. 

*Archival description*/ KB: No news.

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: minor updates has been to the procedures. 

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: Endorsement is ready, can be tested.
 Certification: DILCIS board will have a meeting at the beginning of Apr, M2.5

The next meeting is on Apr 7th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu

