EARK3 A2 meeting on 27th of Jan 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)

Apologies: 
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

A lot of people are in the E-ARK workshop today. 

Reviews – all comments are uploaded to Drive and instructions circulated, summary’s (template) needs to be ready by Fri, Feb 5th next week. 

Group 3 (number of guidelines) will be going out in Feb. Documents should be ready also by Feb 5th. E-Health 1, SIARD, RM, – we have an info text document, the suggestion is to do the same questions to all guidelines, a small summary must be written.  

- Progress report of specs:

ABN has asked what we have left for A2 - KB has uploaded a new version of the workplan to Drive and added comments. Will be looked more thoroughly next A2 meeting. 

*IP-s*/ KB: IP’s are in maintenance mood. 

*SIARD*/ PT: Surprised and disappointed of so few review answers, only 3-5. KB agrees with it, some have said they haven’t had time, but we have spread it well. We have to think about how to raise more interest in future. The number is similar to all specs. 
PT proposes to send a draft of guideline to KB and discuss it in time slot next Wed. KB adds that we don’t have to have all the text ready because people don’t have anything to comment on. We need to know what they need, a guideline will never be finished. 
KB asks LR if he has got any response to the e-mail sent to user-groups? LR comments no more info. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ has looked through comments, received one detailed informative one. Q is how to contact them to invite to Geoforum? KB It is okay if in survey results they have marked they want to be contacted. Comments are interesting, one suggests that we have to rely more on standards, but we don’t have the budget planned to buy them. GZ will send the list needed to KB as an activity lead. Also waiting for comments to the schedule from DNA team that promised the last meeting, so we wouldn’t work only in one direction and we don’t want to lose time. GZ will send an e-mail to KB with the estimated time needed for a meeting to discuss the schedule. Goeforum meeting next week. The following 2 weeks will provide a summary, also worked out a list of questions. 


*RM*/ KB: Summary ready by next week. None of the comments is giving any change in spec itself. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM is working with comments and guideline. 

*E-Health 2*/ AP comments they elaborated the structure of the package and fill the table 3.3.1. Continue working on the spec. 

*Premis*/ KB: The summary will be ready by next Fri. Few comments, but not changing what we have done. 
*Archival description*/ KB: Didn’t get any comments at all. 

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: updated and released on the release date. 

*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: e-mails circulated about the endorsement, the cert will be discussed on DILCIS board meeting. 

MS adds information about the second A3.3 hackathon week where PT will be involved.


Next meeting is on Feb 10th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu

