EARK3 A2 meeting on 16th of June 2021

# Minutes

## Members:

• Karin Bredenberg DLM (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
• Anders Bo Nielsen (Danish National Archives)
• Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway) 
• Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
• David Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Gregor Završnik (Geoarch)
• Janet Anderson (Highbury IVS)
• Karin Oolu DLM (EasyLean OÜ)
• Lauri Rätsep (National Archives of Estonia)
• Markus Merenmies DLM (National Archives of Finland)
• Stephen Mackey (PIQL)

Apologies: 
• Ane Hovdan (National Archives of Norway)
• Anja Paulič (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia) 
• Carl Wilson (Stichting Open Preservation, OPF)
• Jože Škofljanec (Archives of the Republic of Slovenia)
• Henrik K. R. Jakobson (DNA)
• Jamie Kaminski (Highbury IVS)
• Kuldar Aas (National Archives of Estonia)
• Lars J Alvik (National Archives of Norway)
• Martin Speller (OPF) 
• Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
• Phillip Tømmerholt (Danish National Archives)
• Sven Schlarb (Swiss Federal Archives)
• Vesa-Matti Ovaska DLM (National Archives of Finland)



## Text: 

The next meeting is on July 28th. Invitations for ordinary A2 meetings meanwhile will be cancelled, but team meetings are there if someone wants to use them. 

Important to remember: August is publication month, all must be ready regarding CITS. 

Reviews: reviews 4 and 5 are out, closing on July 18th. KB will circulate the results and all who are responsible for these reviews should asap create a summary report. Short time frame until publication in Aug, it’s really important to fix things asap!

DILCIS Board: AIP White Paper are on review with group 4, KB will do CITS work during vacation.  


- Progress report of specs:

Overall admin: Project review is moved to the beginning of July, its half-year review and mostly for activity leads. 

*IP-s*/ KB: In maintenance mood, there are requests but will be handled asap and the publications in Oct.   
                                                                                                                
*SIARD*/ ABN: Finalizing current ver of SIARD 2.2 and updating CITS for SIARD, have a colleague martin to assist us, hope to finish today. Next Wed, 25th of June we’ll have the final version SIARD, and then CITS for SIARD. KB specifies that everything must be ready by Aug 6th.

ABN adds being behind regarding the work with user-group and considering to remind people via e-mail until we find the solution, also try to involve colleague Martin on this part. The only option we have is contacts and presentations to help to keep the user group alive. KB suggest adding SIARD webinar to e-mails. 

*Geodata +GIS*/ GZ: Spec went out on review, meantime we are preparing the test packages. KB adds the feedback will come asap after July 18th. 

*RM*/ KB: No changes in spec itself. 

*E-Heatlh1*/ SM reports no big changes, working hard with software tool side. Next week will have to work with major components and then work with test data ahead. SM thanks KB for test data from Sweden, also from Norway.  Hopefully, after July 18th will finish with spec and then we will need JK time to polish and try to finish a week early. 

*E-Health 2*/ KB out on the review.   

*Premis*/ KB: No changes. 

*Archival description*/ KB: No changes.

*Guidelines and procedures*/ KB: There will be changes regarding the work with validation, how to obtain the value list. 
                                                                                                                          
*Endorsement and certification*/ KB: Hope you are testing endorsement.

- Report from the sub-team of DILCIS Board/A3.3 and specifications and validation – CITS levels of validatability

JA, ABN explains the work done, shares the screen of the draft. Also, other members were on the team, MF, PT, CF, GZ, Luis Faria, but not present today. 
Huge work has been done, MF first put a full set of thoughts and then the group made effort in such a short time. Discussion about several issues, but there is still a lot of work ahead. 

KB likes the table, looks good, must be ready by August. Keywords or explanations in table headings should be added.

KB will be on vacation for 3 weeks from now. 

The next meeting is on July 28th 

## Notes by: 

Karin Oolu
