<!-- Yay, no errors, warnings, or alerts! -->


# **Minutes DILCIS Board 2022-05-03**


## **Members attending:**



* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark) 
* Audun Lund (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)*
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury R&D Ireland)
* David Anderson (Highbury R&D Ireland and DLM Observer)*

*=absent 


## **Agenda:**



1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting
3. Webpage
4. Current status of our specifications (all specification responsible)
5. SIARD updates, mail list works and so on
6. Next meeting
7. Meeting closes


## **Notes:**


### Welcome

Karin Bredenberg welcomed everyone to the meeting and said an extra thank you to Kuldar Aas who has rotated off the board.


### Secretary

KB will make the notes.


### Webpage

KB got access to the webpage from KA. Updates will be made when Karin’s agenda is a little less occupied. Changes in the first place is removal of KA as a member and the update of the affiliation for JA and DA.

A suggestion was made of publishing the logos on the webpage with both transparent background and in SVG format.


### Current status of our specifications

The status and plans for the specifications were given. These will aid Karin Bredenberg in the writing of the plan for the specifications in the procurement for the continuation of E-ARK.

There is a need for formalizing a first set of labels to use for issues in GitHub across the repositories, a task that will be handled during the last part of 2022.


#### CSIP (KB)

No new issues. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 


#### SIP (MF)

No new issues. The current issues covers:



* Publication formatting
* Cardinality discrepancy between SIP and METS. Will render a version 2.2.1, MF sets up a milestone and prepares the work.
* Shallow SIP’s need to be described. Can be described as a SIP where all the content is referenced instead of placed in the IP. Explanations will be made in the Guideline for CSIP.
* Issue with request for adding retention info will need a separate discussion.
* There might be a need for better describing the different agents that are present. Thorough explanations can be given in the guideline.


#### AIP (KB)

No new issues. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. 


#### DIP (ABN)

No new issues. More work is needed. Updates are needed for giving more explanations regarding tools to use for the information within a DIP and for the different rights that are present.


#### Preservation (KB)

No new issues. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. Focus more on the guideline descriptions of it. 


#### Archival (KB)

No new issues. Being a specification based upon endorsement, it will not be updated. Focus more on the guideline descriptions of it. 


#### eHealth1 (KB)

No new issues. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. A package tool is available!


#### eHealth2 (KB)

No new issues. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. Focus upon awareness.


#### ERMS (KB)

No new issues. Minor updates will be made following the decided revision cycle procedure. Focus more on the guideline descriptions of it. 


#### Geodata (GZ)

No new issues, the one there has been taken care of. GZ will see if he can change the email used for GitHub or set  up a new account to be able to close the issues. Most comments are received at the GeoForum GZ is responsible for at DLM Forum.



* More explanations regarding the use of the prescribed folder structure will be made in the guideline.
* A short appendix to the guideline regarding use of CITS SIARD for Geodata will be made.


#### CITS SIARD (ABN)

Some new issues, most of which come through email or direct contact with ABN. ABN has been testing the specification and some changes needed to arise which will be entered as GitHub issues.



* More explanations regarding how to use SIARD are needed.
* More explanations regarding placement of LOB’s is wanted.


### SIARD (ABN)

Some new issues, most of which come through email or direct contact with ABN. These will be entered as GitHub issues. There are GitHub issues to close. LOB’s gets comments also regarding the standard SIARD. Many comments can be sent on to the software providers due to the fact that there are implementation issues in the software and not the standard itself.



* Updates needed in PRONOM (use this form: [http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/pronom/submit.htm](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/pronom/submit.htm) ) and LoC file format list ( contact the correct person on this page: [https://www.loc.gov/preservation/resources/rfs/contacts.html](https://www.loc.gov/preservation/resources/rfs/contacts.html) )
* Comments on the layout of the document. KB suggested a quick fix being to gather the images in a separate document to make them easier to see.
* Discussion needed on the comments of using parts of the standard SQL-2011, the use of dialects of SQL.
* Time is sparse so the email list is not active.


#### Other subjects mentioned



* A CITS for NoSQL? Endorsement possibility!
* A CITS for Document Store databases? Endorsement possibility!
* A similarity to an AIC for SIP’s? Textual description?


### Next meeting

The next meeting will occur on Wednesday 1st of June at 10.00 CEST.


### Meeting closes

KB thanked all for participating!


## **Action points:**



* KB will use the notes to enhance the bid document.
* KB will look into the logos and publish them on the webpage.
* KB will make sure the latest versions of documents have a specific folder in the Google drive.
* MF will prepare for update of SIP to 2.2.1
* MF writes text about shallow SIP’s in the guideline.
* GZ makes sure he regains his access to GitHub.
* GZ will extend the guidelines with information regarding use of the folder structure and with a short appendix describing the use of CITS SIARD for Geodata.
* ABN will update the CITS SIARD guideline with information about use of SIARD and how LOB’s are/should be treated.
* ABN will make sure updates are made in the PRONOM registry and LoC file format list.
* KB will send a booking for the next meeting.


## **Notes by:**

Karin Bredenberg, 2022-05-03
