# **DILCIS Board Meeting**

Monday, April 7<sup>th</sup> 2025

Where: Zoom meeting

Time: 10.00 – 11.30 CET

# Members: 



* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
* Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia) np
* ~~Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)~~ np
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)
np = not present

# Agenda:



1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting: Janet Anderson
3. E-ARK CSP updates (all). SS. Removing splitting from the AIP to the CSIP – put this in the guidelines
    1. JA Update on EUDI implementing acts expected in late May. Also, OAIS latest update still refers incorrectly to the E-ARK AIP.
4. Common questions
    1. **DECISIONS CONFIRMATION INCLUDING DISCUSSIONS**:
        1. [https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7](https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7) Nothing new. SS: We had the eArchiving Technical forum and discussed the Referencing Shallow IPs, and we agreed that this is covered in the CSIP and we should put this in the guideline. So this can now be formally be voted on – MF will rephrase the text and add to the guideline to be voted on.
5. Status of our specifications (all specification responsible)
    1. CSIP: Nothing new.
    2. SIP: There are a few feature requests pending. Work needed on rephrasing the agents raised by Prorenata in Sweden, coming via SM. There are issues with cardinality – it is a limitation of the way we express requirements. The description of the agents is not good – it steers away from the METS agents description. If there are big changes, that might incur a major change. KB: Going from mandatory to optional doesn’t affect backwards compatibility, only optional to mandatory. SM could then test with eHealth1. KB: the agent description goes back to 2014. Also METS agents are about creating the METS document and not creating the document. 
    3. AIP: Not much to report – things are covered by other IPs. AIP will be completely about lifecycle and versioning. Discussing with Neil Jeffries about OCFL (started in 2019 with KB, Angela Dappert and SS) – this is coming on well. 
    4. DIP:  Interest from Odilo on Containerized docker DIPs.
    5. Preservation: No news
    6. Archival: No news 
    7. eHealth1: Waiting for news on Agents.
    8. eHealth2: No news
    9. ERMS: No news
    10. Geodata: Nothing new now. Upcoming versioning debate.
    11. CITS SIARD: MB – did the reporting. There were two issues closed in the last month. Nothing new.
    12. 2x CITS 3D: PM nothing new. Working on LOTAR part 21 – virtual packages discussion. HM discussion coming up this month. 
6. SIARD
    1. Workplan status update. Two meetings working on the issues, separating new and very old issues. Looking for another meeting date. Labelled issues for DILCIS Board. Workplan – tried to update SIARD to markdown version – asked for help from SM. SS: Carl Wilson recommends Asciidoc as it is made for specifications. Pandoc is a tool to convert e.g. Word doc to markdown, and CW/SS can help, but you have to do a manual check at the end. ABN: We have been using Pandoc a lot recently.  
    2. Discussion
7. Webpage: No updates. Email is not getting much spam recently.
8. Next meeting: 28<sup>th</sup> May 2025.
9. Meeting closes
