# **DILCIS Board Meeting**

Wednesday, February 19<sup>th</sup> 2025

Where: Zoom meeting

Time: 10.00 – 11.30 CET

# Members: 



* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* ~~Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)~~ np
* ~~Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)~~ np
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)
* Gregor Završnik (Geoarh)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)

np = not present

# Agenda and notes:



1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting – Janet Anderson
3. E-ARK CSP updates (all) – all well, M28 report accepted, May 14<sup>th</sup> event 
4. Common questions
    1. **DECISIONS CONFIRMATION**:
        1. [https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7](https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7) The discussion continues there. MF there are good arguments on both sides, but we need to make an informed decision and vote. KB – bring a summary to the next DILCIS Board meeting and then make a decision. MB – what are the consequences for both sides of the argument? MF – there is the risk that the link breaks to the outsourced data and is lost. But OAIS should cope with external data. SM – CSIP doesn’t stop this, it just doesn’t recommend it. So adding a lot of text to put it on equal footing with self-contained AIP doesn’t make sense. SS – philosophical position that AIP should be self-contained. But there is also a risk if everything in the archive is self-contained. You need the object store to be serialized. SM. RAID stores act in the same way as object stores. So, AIPs will be stored on fragmented media. The difference is when data is stored on external media.
5. Status of our specifications (all specification responsible)
    1. CSIP – More major bug fix release at the end of  October 2025, not all the specifications and guidelines, so everything needs to be ready on 15<sup>th</sup> September.
    2. SIP - MF. CW has granted request re. V2.2.2 and fixed an issue reported by SM. KB. This is a minor bug fix, and we can do this as part of the running schedule. KB and CW can do this after Lisbon.
    3. AIP – Preparing for a meeting with the OCFL group and we will be discussing the AIP versioning approach. One solution provider has asked about Conformance for AIP only – is this possible? KB This is a good outcome – the AIP implementation has been well-described for this provider to use it. KB people are using the eHealth1 CITS and want to show that the outgoing SIP is conformant. MF – can’t you just be conformant with one IP? SS – no problem – we just need to adapt our templates, and the process, without making it too complicated. MF – we are in a project where we are using an E-ARK SIP to move material from a productive system to an archive – can these productive systems be E-ARK compliant? Do we use strict OAIS definitions (you can’t export an AIP)? We need to say the IPs are complaint. MF AIPs were developed for possible export. SS such compliance for SIPs is good in principle, but we say we are fully OAIS compliant. SS/KB OAIS is a reference model – a conceptual model, and doesn’t cover implementation. GZ we might need special conformance for producers and archives. KB There is an official process for being an OAIS certifier. We are only looking at E-ARK conformance. SS It is possible to just have AIP (choose one of the radio buttons), so we can go ahead, and thus lower the barrier to entry. 
    4. DIP – SS - nothing new apart from Odilo who asked about container-based DIPs. SS explained that you can store DIPs for later use, e.g. for a geo DIP with additional material already there. 
    5. Preservation – No news
    6. Archival – No news
    7. eHealth1 – implementation taking place in Sweden which has raised a couple of issues about the SIP – passed onto MF.
    8. eHealth2 – no news
    9. ERMS – no news (spelling error!)
    10. Geodata – upcoming project with ARS to create a GIS and the company has contacted GZ.
    11. CITS SIARD – nothing new.
    12. 2x CITS 3D – PM exciting times. Minor issues resolved. Doing LOTAR standard, thus introducing E-ARK to the LOTAR community. Release 1.1 in October. CITS 3D Heritage Model (HM) waiting for initial feedback.
6. SIARD
    1. Workplan status update A-KG working through the issue list. Who is in charge of the work? PAT not in E-ARK nor DILCIS. ABN not in E-ARK. There have been no meetings. We can discuss in Lisbon. ABN is back next week. MB – call a meeting and include KB with the aim of addressing the Github list.
    2. Discussion
7. Webpage – no changes.
8. Next meeting – Monday 7<sup>th</sup> April.
9. Meeting closes
