# **DILCIS Board Meeting 2025-10-08**
Time: 10.00 – 11.30 CET
# Members: 
* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (Independent)
* Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)

(x) = not present

# Agenda and notes:
1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting – JA.
3. E-ARK CSP update? Just eArchiving Annual Review coming up. Response to David G – we will have a separate meeting about this, and the specifications update takes preference. Karin to be away at iPres mid-October – November. 
4. Common questions
    1. **DECISIONS CONFIRMATION INCLUDING DISCUSSIONS**:
        1. [https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7](https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7) Nothing new.
5. Status of our specifications (all specification responsible)
    1. CSIP – More work is needed on the second page (acknowledgements/logos) – put this page on the web so as to not have to keep changing it and republishing all 30 documents. Stephen and Gregor testing the pipeline process with ASCIdocs. No updates until the process is finished (four months). Nothing new for CSIP.
    2. SIP – Nothing new – ready for publication. Final review possible if required.
    3. AIP – The last activities on OCFL etc. were just before hearing about the closure. We do not need a separate AIP – everything can be in the guidelines. The same for the DIP. This is in line with the Solution Providers’ feedback – they want containerized solutions. 2026 is the year that the specifications can undergo a major revision, and this can be done then. There is METS 2.0 and a new version of PREMIS with a rights update, and we can continue using the same semantic units (elements), but we do not dictate how people must use them. Next week there will be a submission of the EAD update. The biggest user is Archives Portal Europe (APE) and the EAD uptake will take time. What does a major update for E-ARK entail? We can carry out the AIP/DIP suggestions. What about the validators? We have SIP validators. Thus, we have a clear path as to what we should be doing. 
    4. Preservation – no news
    5. Archival – no news
    6. eHealth1 - No work on eHealth1 – there is more and more interest in this in Sweden.
    7. eHealth2 – we have been looking at the guidelines. What would a major revision look like? Would it be in the guidelines for the SIP, or a specific use case. (Anja deliverable 2 due 12<sup>th</sup> December ☺).
    8. ERMS – nothing new. One more Swedish company will be looking at this, together with CSIP and SIP.
    9. Geodata – working on a project where the results can be moved into the CITS guidelines (results next year). This will be presented at the Geoforum in Copenhagen. Feedback – a link on appendix 3 is not working.  
    10. CITS SIARD – Nothing new
    11. 2x CITS 3D – nothing new. Heritage ready to publish, but needs a formal external review. 
6. SIARD
    1. Workplan status update – ABN, MB and A-KG discussed keeping up the work every quarter, so some tasks have been postponed and the workplan has been revised. We have solved a few issues, and are using google docs for the notes, which will be moved to Github, to show users the timeframes etc.  We will move to using ASCIdoc conversion for SIARD.  \
A-KG can work a couple of days a month on SIARD, looking at several issues from the same super user in Norway that reveal some underlying future challenges. Hence writing notes/risk analysis to distribute to the SIARD group and MF/Miguel Guimarães. SIARD is alive in groups. ABN, there is an issue with compliance – different tools produce different results, and this will continue. We work with SFA in this. MB – this summer there were new requests from users regarding SIARD suite etc., what is possible with the tool and what with the specification. There will be SIARD 3.0. Nora will leave SFA in December. There are 2 large current SFA projects.  
    1. Discussion
7. Webpage – no updates. 
8. Next meeting – December 10<sup>th</sup> 10.00 – 11.00
9. Meeting closes
