**DILCIS Board Meeting Agenda**

Wednesday, DEcember 10<sup>th</sup> 2025

Where: Zoom meeting

Time: 10.00 – 11.00 CET

**Members:**


* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* ~~Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)~~
* Anders Bo Nielsen (Independent)
* ~~Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)~~ - Maternity leave x
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)
* Gregor Završnik (Geoarh)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)

Invited and present at the meeting: Jože Škofljanec (National Archives of Slovenia) and Violeta Vogel (Swiss Federal Archives)
 

**Agenda and notes:**

 

1. Welcome

2. Secretary of the meeting - Miguel Ferreira

3. Future discussion
- eHealth2 is related to health registers, specifically cancer records.
- This records are constantly changing
- Sequencial exports of such data always creates a different export/record
- Its somewhat similar to the behaviour of SIARD
- The proposal is to put it as an appendix of SIARD CITS
- Will be discussed dirung the next meajor revision

4. E-ARK CSP update regarding the CSP review
- Everything went well with the review
- We still haven't received the official letter from the EC
- Payments to partners have been issued

**Certification process of the specifications**
- No additional information from Joze
- There will be a meeting with CEN tomorrow

**E-ARK Forum**
- E-ARK will be converted to a subforum of the DLM Forum called "E-ARK forum"
- In January it will be made official
- David will be working on the website

5. Common questions

    **a) DECISIONS CONFIRMATION**
   - [https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7](https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7)
   - No news today

b) Comments from David Giaretta, first look 
- Karin will reply to David saying that we will be addressing his issues on the next major release of the specification
- In this coming major revision we have a lot of discussion to make and to have in mind that the revsion will take its time


6. Status of our specifications (all specifications responsible). No new news. 
   1. CSIP – Nothing new.
    2. SIP – Nothing new.
    3. AIP – Nothing new. 
    4. Preservation – no news
    5. Archival – no news
    6. eHealth1 - no news
    7. eHealth2 – no news
    8. ERMS – nothing new. 
    9. Geodata – no news  
    10. CITS SIARD – Nothing new
    11. 2x CITS 3D
      - We got a new 3D heritage specification
      - The spec has been converted to the new ascii doc format (waiting for Carl's help)
      - A survey needs to be created. David A. will check with DLM Forum if the EU tool they use can be used

6. SIARD

a) Workplan
- Work is on-going
- The SIARD workgroup plans to spend 8 hours of month per person working on SIARD
- Yesterday the Database Preservation Working Group had a meeting where the usefulness of SIARD has been discussed in the special case of SAP databases
  -  SAP (German ERP system) data is difficult to archive as SIARD. The database has hierarchical data that is not really compatible with SIARD.
  -  There will be presentation in the next DLM forum
- Institutions are using 3 different tools for generating SIARD files. Each tool produces a different SIARD file, specifically on special features. There is a room for interpretation while reading the spec, and different toolmakers implement them in different ways
- We should focus our effort in making the specification clearer in those aspects that have already been identified
- Some of this issues are already 2 years old


b) Discussion no discussion today

7. Webpage. No news

8. Next meeting.
   - Karin will send out something Doodelish in January to decide upon a meeting in February.
   - We will have ameeting on the FM before DLM Forum starts with possiblity to attend both F2F and virtual

10. Meeting closes
