# **DILCIS Board Meeting**


Time: 10.00 – 11.30 CEST



* Link to the meeting is found in the booking


# Members: 



* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
* Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)*
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)

* =not present


# Agenda:



1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting - Janet.
3. E-ARK CSP updates (all) – Update on OAIS developments – previous comments from David Giaretta, new interoperability framework, Miguel DG visit – lack of Representation Information, hates the word metadata, and likes descriptive metadata units, provenance, descriptive, etc. this is key to preservation and is a preservation risk. CEN TC/468 based on OAIS, we used OAIS terms like Representation Information. It can be hard to satisfy everyone, but we needed a common basis. If we are saying we are OAIS-compliant then we should use his terms. Sven, we could clear up any misunderstanding about terminology. Karin – it is a reference model and can be implemented in different ways. JA/SS we could do a mapping to show where we map onto OAIS/XFDU. 
4. Common questions
    1. **DECISIONS CONFIRMATION INCLUDING DISCUSSIONS**:
        1. [https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7](https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7)  \
We discussed this in a technical group meeting, we decided it was compatible with the existing specification, but it should be added to the guidelines. MF has now done this and shared the link internally with the board.
5. Status of our specifications (all specification responsible)
    1. CSIP – one issue needed a reply.
    2. SIP – two resolved issues – one simple URL issue pointing to a wrong version of the profile, the other issue 141 – SM reported that the SIP header pointed to agents was inconsistent with the CSIP. There was another incorrect section, so I rewrote it, and deleted the options. Hopefully the incompatibility was unbroken. SM checked and it is now version 2.3.0 and is on a special branch and could be merged. Version numbers – CSIP should be 2.0.0 and SIP, DIP should change and could be different. MF asked CW for a temporary preview action on the OPF website.  
    3. AIP – discussed OCFL with Neil Jeffries, and will have consortium discussion about it, and webinar in July. SS joined OCFL meeting and demonstrated earkweb using OCFL etc. The delta is useful, and the splitting etc should be moved to the CSIP as an appendix so that it doesn’t interfere with anything. KB – yes and at the same time we check MF’s changes.
    4. DIP – Nothing new.
    5. Preservation – Nothing new.
    6. Archival – iPRES – remake of the rights to be announced after iPRES. New versions of EAD, and EAC-F 2026.
    7. eHealth1 – METS header issue as reported by MF in the SIP. The changes are now made in eHealth1 and will be published SEP/Oct.
    8. eHealth2 – working on the guideline.
    9. ERMS – issues handled a long time ago.
    10. Geodata – nothing new, developing semantic representations to go in a new appendix. Some mapping agencies are using ontologies and what to know where to put this – with the documentation for the whole package, or with the representation documentation – where it is most appropriate. 
    11. CITS SIARD – nothing new – two open issues.
    12. 2x CITS 3D – nothing new – continuing to work on Lotar metadata – JA scientific interest from EDEN project (EOSC). MF – feature requests for business for SIP sequencing, and disposal schedule. SM – this has come up for Penwern and would be a good topic for Sven discussion meeting. KB – the SIP sequencing was mentioned in the original E-ARK but rejected. Agree with SM to discuss. ABN – retention schemes are in the policy (and they can change over time), so not bound to the package. It would be difficult to link to the package. Hard to sequence self-referential SIPs. In Portugal, ‘records’ exist for ever, so this is not straight forward. ABN – errors can occur, so the OCFL deltas are important. Records are open for a person’s lifetime, but archiving can start before then. Similarly for judicial records. A topic for the **eArchiving technical forum!**
6. SIARD
    1. Workplan status update – there have been a few meetings, going through the issues assigning them to people, and then closing issues. Down to 6 unassigned issues. Need to prepare for a new version of the specification. Everything is going well. Thanks for input to the Archiving Brussels event. Difficulties with Pandoc (sp?). 
    2. Discussion
7. Webpage – no updates.
8. Next meeting – August 27<sup>th</sup> 10.00 CEST.
9. AOB – MF Project with Portuguese Ministry of Justice. Developed .net framework for SIPs. They want to announce this – success story, and go for the Conformance Seal.
10. Meeting closes
