**DILCIS Board Meeting Agenda**

Wednesday, January 22<sup>nd</sup> 2025

Where: Zoom meeting

Time: 10.00 – 11.30 CET

**Members:**


* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)
* ~~Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark) Y~~ x
* ~~Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)~~ - Maternity leave x
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)
* ~~Gregor Završnik (Geoarh)~~ x
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited) Y
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology) Y
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)

x = abscent
 

**Agenda and notes:**

 

1. Welcome

2. Secretary of the meeting - Janet Anderson

3. E-ARK CSP updates (all). None.

4. Common questions


    a)Report from publication December 2024 This went live on 24<sup>th</sup> December. The 3D CITS were published. Also published were the Geo guidelines and eHealth1.


    **b)**    **DECISIONS CONFIRMATION**


            a.   [ https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7](https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7) 4 viewed but 1 vote only for shallow IPs. The contradiction was fixed but will not go live until there are other publications. There was a discussion about the decision process – we all need to remember to acknowledge and vote on the decisions. Maybe we also need an “I don’t know” vote. Also a quorum is vital. Commits might be too difficult for some to track. We need to be reminded to vote (not done by Karin – Janet will do it). We also have different perspectives – solution provider, archive etc. Perhaps we need an open call for comments for the shallow IPs. 

5.	Status of our specifications (all specifications responsible). No new news. 

     	a. CSIP

     	b. SIP


    c. AIP


    d. DIP


    e. Preservation


    f. Archival


    g. eHealth1


    h. eHealth2


    i. ERMS


    j. Geodata


    k. CITS SIARD


    l. 2x CITS 3D

6. SIARD (1h)

     	a) Workplan submitted to DILCIS Board by the 10<sup>th</sup> of January 2025

     	Anders Bo wrote the SIARD workplan which had been distributed. There is a large issue list and we have been analysing the most difficult issues. We need to go through all the items to close some of them (some are several years old). We are looking to see if we need to modify the specification. We have developed the issue management in order to deal with the issues. Are the issues optional or mandatory?

     	We are looking for errors in the specification. We are looking at how the specifications are used by tools since there are several issues regarding implementation.

     	The main goal is to make as few changes as possible. We might look into how to present various views. There is a subgroup working on SIARD – A-KG, MB and ABN. However, they need input from others, especially tool providers. We need that practical experience, especially the optional/mandatory question. Third-party tools do not always follow mandatory/optional tools. There are also organisational challenges: there were discussions with PAT but no resolution, so we brought the issues (some from 2019) into the DILCIS Board. Tools will change, and there are other things to discuss, but we are blocked from going on until these issues are addressed (there are no comments on the issues from 2019). From the Excel list of issues, the green ones are to be closed, and the yellow ones have been discussed, some of them refer to implementation, some are wish lists, some are minor, some are comments on the latest version of the standard. A test database would be useful as a normative example. The Board could help resolve these old issues, at least we could respond to the old issues, even if we cannot resolve implementation problems. We will need change management to decide how to deal with the issues: fix the bugs, put some issues in the future version list. **The specification does not need changing.** We could change some mandatory/optional designations. We need to include people inside the DILCIS Board, within the project and beyond. We need to make a short-term plan: what to close, what to deal with first etc. It would be good to include KEEPS – Miguel F does not have time, but Miguel G has time and the right experience. Longer term, it would be good to include more views in the SIARD file. Prioritising issues is key: bugs with tools is not an issue for the DILCIS Board, feature requests need to be addressed by the DILCIS Board, typos can be fixed. The SFA can take tasks, but this needs input from ABN and A-KG. We need to transform the issues into actual achievable tasks. A-KG will talk to PAT about using Github. Then we will add labels: typos, bugs, feature requests, those that need bringing to the DILCIS Board, colour code – red important etc. A tool should have a compatibility statement regarding with which SIARD version it is compatible. Interoperability is something to consider if tools interpret/implement SIARD differently. Ground truth is key here, like a reference implementation. It would help if we knew which tool created a SIARD file. We are not a certification body to say tools are following our standard. The SIARD file is human-readable – the SIP file contains XML. However, a SIARD file might be transformed into another SIARD file, so human-readable is not enough. Recent MySQL database tests produced SIARD 1.0 file but not SIARD 2.0 using both SIARD Suite and DBPTK. Norwegian companies will stop using SIARD if they are not interoperable. SIARD follows SQL 2008, and you can’t always use SIARD as a migration tool. It keeps it in a normalised form. Migration might be a need, but preservation is the aim. SIARD can normalise the data but not cover the access and queries. DBPTK has more features, and this is good. There are many SQL dialects, but it should be possible to move the SIARD data into a database. Sometimes you cannot get the data into the SIARD suite, and then you cannot recreate the database. However, new features in the S/W needs to be considered separately and new features paid for. If SIARD tools do not produce proper SIARD files – what happens? We do not certify the S/W tools – we need funding. For the eArchiving May 14<sup>th</sup> Brussels event, **please respond to JA**. The database archiving morning will have a variety of sessions – some SIARD, some overview, some general database archiving. We need to know the burning issues. CITS SIARD issues need to go to the CITS SIARD repository in Github – use a project for handle/not handle. **Give comments etc. before closing.** Activity on Github is really important otherwise the public think it is dead. The workplan looks OK, and the team needs to meet ASAP – ABN is not in eArchiving and PAT is not in the DILCIS Board.     

     	b) Discussion

7. Webpage. It has been updated.

8. Next meeting. Penultimate week in February.   

9. Meeting closes
