# **Minutes DILCIS Board 2024-04-24**

## **Members attending:**

* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
* Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)*
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
* Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)*
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)

*=absent

Invited guest:
* Carl Wilson (OPF and E-ARK CSP)

## **Agenda**
1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting
3. E-ARK CSP updates (all)
4. Common questions
    1. **DECISIONS CONFIRMATION**:
        1. [https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7](https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7)<span style="text-decoration:underline;"> </span>
5. Status of our specifications and focus on the publication on the 17th of May
    1. CSIP
    2. SIP
    3. AIP
    4. DIP
    5.  Preservation
    6. Archival
    7. eHealth1
    8. eHealth2
    9. ERMS
    10. Geodata
    11. CITS SIARD
6. SIARD
7. Webpage
8. Next meeting
9. Meeting closes

## **Notes**

1. **Welcome**
* Karin welcomed everyone to the meeting 
2. **Secretary of the meeting**
* Janet Anderson
3. **E-ARK CSP updates (all)**
* None today
4. **Common questions**
    1. Decisions confirmations (None today) 
5. **Status of our specifications** (all specification responsible)

CW: Glossaries – some have them, some don’t – where to put them? E.g. SIP, goes at the end in a table. Should glossaries be an appendix, or a line in the specification. KB, prefer not to have them. They should be consistent. They should be in the repository. Keep them as they are this time. SM glossaries are really useful in the CITS where there are complex domains, particularly eHealth and CAD. Core terms are central, so a common glossary would be useful, and we have our own schema. \
KB: Specifications not in the GitHub publication process needs to be in NextCloud! KB will start on these as soon as she hears from CW who will mail them to her all together. 

   1. CSIP Work on-going.
   2. SIP \
MF has been working on his own branch v2.0. CW is working on a clean branch. MF doing final checks and is ready to go.
   3. AIP  \
SS: a few things need streamlining. Major changes have been done, but there are a few bits to be tidied up after moving things concerning splitting AIPs.
  4. DIP    \
SS: must there be a single representation? If there is a choice then you don’t know which one to use. What should the cardinality be? 0..1; 1..n; 0..n? MF asked who requested this? SS – an Austrian Library service and a Belgian archive. It is an issue. We will vote on this before Friday in the Kanban!
  5.  Preservation  (Ready to go)
  6. Archival  (Ready to go) 
  7. eHealth1 \
SM: no flaws identified in the review, just comments. Just a small amount of tidying needed.
  8. eHealth2  (Ready to go)
  9. ERMS  \
KB: waiting for pull request approvals then ready to go
  10. Geodata \
KB thanks GZ for sending everything over. Authors need to be changed. They can be added in a note. What about contributors who send in issues? They are not named. GZ creating the release notes – where do these go? Github. CW and KB can review release notes for consistency. Note, METS profiles will also have to be renamed etc.
  11. CITS SIARD (Will not be updated besides the front pages)

6. **SIARD**
* ABN – we are looking at how to refresh SIARD. We are going through the long issue list – some 5 years old. Next meeting at the end of May. KB we will need a proper review period. 
8. **Webpage**
* Give text to KB, who has prepared new links and information etc.
8. **Next meeting**
* Brussels and on-line on 27th May 9.30 -10.30 in the Belgian National Archives
