# **Minutes DILCIS Board 2024-04-24**

## **Members attending:**
* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
* Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)*
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)*
* Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)

*=absent

Invited guest:
* Carl Wilson (OPF and E-ARK CSP)

## **Agenda**
1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting
3. E-ARK CSP updates (all)
4. Common questions
    1. **DECISIONS CONFIRMATION**:
        1. [https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7](https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7)<span style="text-decoration:underline;"> </span>
    2. Change of front page layout (Janet)
5. Status of our specifications and discussions needed (all specification responsible)
    1. CSIP
    2. SIP
    3. AIP
        1. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-AIP/issues/83](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-AIP/issues/83)
    4. DIP
    5.  Preservation
    6. Archival
    7. eHealth1
    8. eHealth2
    9. ERMS
    10. Geodata
    11. CITS SIARD
6. SIARD
7. Webpage
8. Next meeting
9. Meeting closes

## **Notes**

1. **Welcome**
* Karin welcomed everyone to the meeting 
2. **Secretary of the meeting**
* Janet Anderson
3. **E-ARK CSP updates (all)**
* Registered participants have been asked to confirm their attendance at the 29th May event in Brussels. However, the email link is missing a letter, and even when a response was successfully sent, a ticket is sent from the eArchiving office, instead of a simple affirmation, and this is disconcerting.
4. **Common questions**
    1. Decisions confirmations \
There are issues on the confirmation board – we are working on these. One has been updated with typos etc. fixed and Miguel has approved them. Nothing else has been reported.
    2. Change of front page layout \
With apologies from JA regarding any confusion last year, CW told us that he has already removed the DILCIS logo from the front cover. KB would have preferred to keep it there and stated that removing it creates more work. The DILCIS logo on the inside cover will be changed to show a white instead of a blue background.  
5. **Status of our specifications (all specification responsible)** \
CW: Problems with different layouts for authors. The metadata - we could combine the YML files and rationalise the tables. See the geospatial specification as an exemplar. Apart from typesetting the SIP, there are no expected problems. Links to logos on the bottom of this page, [https://dilcis.eu/about](https://dilcis.eu/about) 
    1. CSIP \
we are working with the issues and on the publication process – doing the CSIP now. Waiting for changes from John Mackey.
    2. SIP \
No changes since the last meeting. New “referred to” and “depends on” are the only new things – where should these extra terms put? The profile table etc does not change the publication process, it all works well.
    3. AIP 
        1. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-AIP/issues/83](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-AIP/issues/83)  This is the Bagit issue, and a meeting is planned with SS, AK-G and ABN, then perhaps move to a wider workshop (after 17th May). ABN said it is important to get the AIP in a good state.

    4. DIP   (Nothing to discuss at this meeting)
    5.  Preservation  (Nothing to discuss at this meeting)
    6. Archival   \
updates since RiC published.
    7. eHealth1 \
review survey is now closed. SS has sent responses from the EU survey Excel sheet to SM.

    8. eHealth2   \
new front page and logo page

    9. ERMS  \
new front page and logo page and handling of the issues.

    10. Geodata \
 identified issues to be included in the next release (Word document) and to be available next week. Others left until after 17th May. Good progress – part of the automated process.

    11. CITS SIARD \
still working there, considering how SIARD may evolve, progressing slowly.
6. **SIARD** \
the standard is not part of this release. Working on this with MB, ABN and A-K G and MG. 
7. **Webpage**  \
write to Karin with any changes regarding your specification.
8. **Next meeting**
* 10.00 CEST 7th May 2024.
