# **Minutes DILCIS Board 2024-03-06**

## **Members attending:**



* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
* Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)*
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)
* Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)

*=absent

## **Agenda**



1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting
3. E-ARK CSP updates (all)
4. Common questions
    1. **DECISIONS CONFIRMATION**:
        1. [https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7](https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7)<span style="text-decoration:underline;"> </span>
5. Status of our specifications (all specification responsible)
    1. CSIP
        1. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/730](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/730)
        2. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/732](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/732)
    3. SIP
    4. AIP
    5. DIP
    6.  Preservation
    7. Archival
    8. eHealth1
    9. eHealth2
    10. ERMS
    11. Geodata
    12. CITS SIARD
6. SIARD
7. Webpage
8. Next meeting
9. Meeting closes

## **Notes**

1. **Welcome**
* Karin welcomed everyone to the meeting 
2. **Secretary of the meeting**
* Janet Anderson
3. **E-ARK CSP updates (all)**
* None. Karin has been working with others on the specification report which have been handed in.
4. **Common questions**
    1. No decisions confirmations today
    2. Remember: You cannot approve your own pull request.
5. **Status of our specifications (all specification responsible)**
    1. CSIP
        1. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/730](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/730) \
incorrect examples - John Mackey and Karin will work on this. These issues may be across all the Ips, but we will address these one at a time. Examples are for illustrating the requirements, but we need to ensure the appendices are correct.
        2. [https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/732](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/732) \
Carl has looked at the language on the folder structure requirements, and he will be making updates. He will create one issue per suggested change. This is true for other specifications too. But let’s see how the publication process goes, and we can make changes to all the specifications at the same time.
        3. Addition at the meeting: \
[https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/4](https://github.com/DILCISBoard/E-ARK-CSIP/issues/4)  \
Package splitting WG to be set up by SS with AKG and ABN.
    2. SIP
        1. MF has gathered together all the disparate issues on different branches edited the language and there will be one large pull request. The process has now changed and we use Github actions – you can fork it, merge with the Master etc. – we need a secure process from Carl Wilson. What about the ‘depends on’ element? This is for validation, and we need to make sure the information is in the specification itself as well as in the METS profile. \
        2. The two issues are not forgotten – MF will work on this, then get the WG together for comment. 
        3. ABN will be leading the SIP part of the CEN/TC 468 WG1 and will be asking MF and SS for advice – the deadline is mid-April
    3. AIP (Nothing to discuss at this meeting)
    4. DIP (Nothing to discuss at this meeting) 
    5.  Preservation  (Nothing to discuss at this meeting)
    6. Archival  (Nothing to discuss at this meeting)
    7. eHealth1 
        1.  Call for comments open, [https://dilcis.eu/13-news/57-dilcis-ehealth1-specification-review-spring-2024](https://dilcis.eu/13-news/57-dilcis-ehealth1-specification-review-spring-2024) 
        2.  Only issues received at the moment are those from Karin. One done, and one next week. 
    8. eHealth2  (Nothing to discuss at this meeting)
    9. ERMS (Nothing to discuss at this meeting)
    10. Geodata (Nothing to discuss at this meeting)
    11. CITS SIARD (Nothing to discuss at this meeting)

6. **SIARD** 
* An issue about the roadmap received by our DILCIS Board email [info@dilcis.eu](mailto:info@dilcis.eu) has been forwarded by Karin via email to the SIARD team. 
7. **Webpage**
* check your pages and suggest updates – send text to Karin.
8. **Next meeting**
* 10th April 10.00 CEST, then meet fortnightly to get specifications ready for publication.
