# **Minutes DILCIS Board and E-ARK CSP CORE.1.1 2024-05-27**


## **Members attending:**



* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark)
* Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)*
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)*
* Gregor Zavrsnik (Geoarh)*
* Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)*
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited)
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology)
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer)*

*=absent 


## **Guests attending:**



* Participants in E-ARK CSP CORE.1.1
    * Phillip Tømmerholt


## **Agenda:**



1. Welcome
2. Secretary of the meeting
3. E-ARK CSP updates (all)
4. Common questions
    1. DECISIONS CONFIRMATION:
        1. [https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7](https://github.com/orgs/DILCISBoard/projects/2/views/7)
    2. The publication
5. Status of our specifications (all specification responsible)
    3. CSIP
    4. SIP
    5. AIP
    6. DIP
    7. Preservation
    8. Archival
    9. eHealth1
    10. eHealth2
    11. ERMS
    12. Geodata
    13. CITS SIARD
6. SIARD
7. Webpage
8. Next meeting
9. Meeting closes


## **Notes:**


### Welcome

Karin Bredenberg welcomed everyone to the meeting.


### Secretary

Janet Anderson will make the notes.


### E-ARK CSP



* Well done for the huge achievement of getting the update done on time. It would be good to get everything done on the same day. The processes are decoupled. However, doing the CITS after the IPs makes sense. GeoCITS not yet updated. We must stick to the deadlines.

4. a) Common questions: None currently. Check the Kanvan board (nothing there currently). We need to acknowledge (these are counted), then vote.

b) Publication: Github has implemented some nifty features – e.g. release notes tied to milestone. It still doesn’t close finished issues for you.

5.	No PRs towards Master – this applies to all specifications! 

     	a. CSIP – all issues handled and CSIP published.

     	b. SIP - all issues handled and SIP published.


    c. AIP – AIP now has a METS profile which contains concrete requirements, and we can start to integrate requirements for the validator. We have a workshop planned for the AIP (A K-G, ABN, SS, colleague from Austrian Library). We are considering splitting – this will go in the appendix of the next update. There is an issue on Github from CW that needs a response (issue 4). We can publish this later this year, maybe with a patch or something similar, when there is confirmation that this is finalised.  


    d. DIP Requirement that there is only one DIP representation – this has been dropped.


    e. Preservation – Bug fix. All stable.


    f. Archival – 2023 RiC published, they are still working on guidance. This is now reflected in Archival.


    g. eHealth1 – Published major release – change in structure of patient representations. Branch created for 2.0.1 and accompanying markdown process.


    h. eHealth2 – Just cover and acknowledgement pages updated. In the autumn there will be more work – there have been some events etc.


    i. ERMS – v3.0 published. No comments. Minor updates in the guidelines – we would like some real life examples (hard to get as they are system exports). What formats are we looking for? XML. National formats? XML – exchange format. A minor example would be helpful. We have an Austrian example mapped to EAD. Roberto Gonzales has examples from Airbus – an anonymised example might be possible.


    j. Geodata – Waiting for the publication.


    k. CITS SIARD – not updated besides the front pages. Some minor issues have been fixed. 

6. SIARD – Nothing new to add.

7. Webpage. The webpage has been updated following the publication – links etc. Give text to KB, who has prepared new links and information etc.

8. Next meeting – beginning of September.

AOB – CITS 3D PM ready for review. Repository needs setting up, and a survey. We will send this to the eArchiving 3D workgroup to review.

9. Meeting closes
