**DILCIS Board Meeting Notes**

**Members:**

**F2F**



* Karin Bredenberg (Kommunalförbundet Sydarkivera, chair)
* Janet Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd.)
* Gregor Završnik (Geoarh)
* Miguel Ferreira (KEEP Solutions)
* Arne-Kristian Groven (National Archives of Norway)

Virtual



* Anders Bo Nielsen (National Archives of Denmark) Y
* ~~Anja Paulič (National Archives of Slovenia)~~ - Maternity leave
* Stephen Mackey (Penwern Limited) Y
* Sven Schlarb (Austrian Institute of Technology) Y
* David Anderson (Highbury Research & Development Ltd., DLM Forum observer) –
* Apologies Maya Bangerter (Swiss Federal Archives)

**Agenda:**

1. Welcome

2. Secretary of the meeting - Janet Anderson

3. E-ARK CSP updates (all). 

4. a) Common questions: None currently. Check the Kanvan board (nothing there currently). We need to acknowledge (these are counted), then vote.

b) Publication: Nothing to report 

5.    No PRs towards Master – this applies to all specifications!  

	a. CSIP – all issues handled. Ready to vote on the shallow IPs for the next meeting.

	b. SIP - all issues handled. Issue raised up by Stephen (incorrect


    c. AIP – nothing new


    d. DIP - nothing new


    e. Preservation – nothing new 


    f. Archival – it was updated when RiC was published. 


    g. eHealth1 – we have a user Prorenata in Sweden (patient journals for eHealth) and they will be looking for the Conformance Seal. CW needs to check the Markdown. When do we publish this minor publication? KB just before Christmas so ~week of 13<sup>th</sup> December.  


    h. eHealth2 – there have been some events this year. 


    i. ERMS – a user wanted us to add extra elements and it was pointed out how they could customise the existing specification. 


    j. Geodata – Everything was finalised ready for the publication in May – the METS Profile and documentation. We are looking at additional documentation. PDFs were sent for publication. KB there were some uncorrelated parts between the METS profile and the documents. GZ said the additional documents were correcting errors etc and were correlated. KB said this can be published, when checked, with the eHealth1 specification in December, so needs to be ready by **9<sup>th</sup> December 2024**. 


    k. CITS SIARD – ABN - an outstanding branch to be merged. 


    l. CITS 3D PM. Two responses, mainly about file formats, one wanting them prescribed, and one wanting information, so this has been added to the guidelines. 

6. SIARD – the main part of the meeting. A-KG. There have been 5 SIARD meetings this year. There was a list of issues that started 6 years ago, from the previous review. We will list a couple of issues:



* SIARD is not mentioned on the LoC list. KB suggested to contact the LoC and tell them that there is a version 2.2 of SIARD. KB can write to them. ABN says we need to address the process: SIARD is mentioned in the LoC notes, but it needs to be higher up in the list. The PRONOM version of SIARD is there. We should plan for the next DILCIS meeting as to how we work with the LoC. A-KG, we want to include ABN in the next SIARD meetings.
* We need to discuss interoperability between the versions of SIARD tools. There is a proprietary company called Spectralcore Full Convert. KB. It is hard to get the vendors together to discuss this – you need to speak to them 1:1. We have experience of doing this. We need to provide information to the vendors. We can send information to the list. MF. We know about 4 vendors, but there may be those we don’t know about. Put information out on LinkedIn etc and promote the database email list. What about Denmark ABN? ABN: this is being done on a small scale. Not big O/S work on this. We get lots of questions about how to interpret the recommendations. It is hard to solve these issues. **Short webinars are good for this** – explaining specific topics. These can go on the E-ARK YouTube site with a link from the DILCIS Board. Coordinate with Jaime, István and Gregor regarding the eArchiving standalone training corpus. SIARD is international. JA: We have a database event pencilled in – we should coordinate with this. ABN – NARA workshop collaboration. We should check the SIARD text on the DILCIS Board website.
* We have been in contact with Torben (name?) from the municipal archives in Norway regarding topics he has brought up over the last 12 years. He has asked about empty schema names. He notes that different producers use SIARD differently (?) Risk that users become dependant on the SIARD S/W. We should investigate these small details. There is a new company doing the SFA SIARD suite now, no longer Hartwig Thomas, and validation of older databases might be an issue. ABN: we are putting a lot of effort into maintaining our SIARD variant validators. We should develop a clear plan for what we should be doing with clear timeframes. SFA and KEEPs are in the eArchiving Initiative so we can align. KB we should develop a roadmap. We could work on smaller issues, minor bugs, LoC etc. A-KG there is a good user community in Norway that we could draw on. Koit from Estonia is working on databases. JA: perhaps a meeting in Denmark, after several meetings online (discuss on January). The email list would be step 1. MF would need to discuss with MG, and MF could write down benefits, and do a gap analysis on what could be developed next if funding is available (also NAE and DNA funded new features – is this O/S or not?). Several institutions could club together to fund extra features.
* A-K G will develop ideas regarding the roadmap ready for the January meeting.  

7. Webpage. No updates. 

8. Next meeting – December before publication, and another in January.

AOB –  GZ Geopackage – its database core is the SQLite container. How would we approach creating a SIARD basis for this? A-KG. I don’t know. SQLite is quite often used to help preserve databases. MF this should work with DBPTK, using ODBC format. ABN – info in Zoom chat.

9. Meeting closes
